BIBLIOGRAPHY
Of books in English on the Life and Teachings of Sri Ramana 
Maharshi
TRANSLATION  OF THE ORIGINAL  TAMIL  WORKS  OF
SRI BHAGAVAN
Five Hymns to Sri Arunachala:  An English translation of Sri 
Arunachala Stuti Panchakam, the devotional hymns sung by Sri 
Bhagavan.
The Collected Works of Ramana Maharshi:  edited by Arthur 
Osborne: A collection of English translations of all Sri Bhagavan’s 
Tamil works, including both His original works and works which 
He translated from other languages.
The Poems of Sri Ramana Maharshi:  Versified  English translations 
by Sadhu Arunachala (A.W. Chadwick) of Sri Bhagavan’s 
philosophical poems and stray verses.
Revelation (Sri Ramana Hridayam):  A Sanskrit verse-rendering of 
Sri Bhagavan’s Ulladu  Narpadu (The Forty Verses on Reality) and 
Anubandham (The Supplement to the Forty Verses) with an English 
translation, both by ‘WHO’ (K. Lakshmana Sarma).
Truth Revealed (Sad-Vidya):  An English translation of Sri Bhagavan’s 
Ulladu Narpadu and Anubandham.
Words of Grace:  An English translation of the essay version of 
Nan Yar? (Who am I?), the essay version of Vichara Sangraham 
(Self-Enquiry) and Upadesa Manjari (Spiritual Instruction), three 
prose works which record the teachings of Sri Bhagavan.
Homage to the Presence of Sri Ramana:  The English version of 473 
verses by Sri Muruganar in praise of Sri Bhagavan. 
The Quintessence of Wisdom:  Translation into English of Sri 
Bhagavan’s ‘Thirty Verses’ of spiritual instruction with a short 
commentary on each.688Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
RECORDS  OF DIALOGUES  
WITH  SRI BHAGAVAN
Day by Day with Bhagavan: A diary by Devaraja Mudaliar recording 
conversations and events in Sri Bhagavan’s Hall during the years 
1945 to 1947. Interesting insights into the Maharshi’s life, his 
relations with devotees and many unique dialogues are recorded 
in a charming manner. 
Letters from Sri Ramanasramam:  A translation of 241 letters Suri 
Nagamma wrote to her brother. The author, a beloved devotee of 
the Sage wonderfully captures the unique personality of the Sage 
and the happenings in the Old Hall. 
Maharshi’s Gospel:  A collection of answers by Sri Bhagavan to 
questions covering. a range of spiritual topics, arranged and 
edited subject-wise into thirteen chapters, forming a brief but 
comprehensive record of His oral teachings.
Self-Enquiry:  An English translation by Dr.T.M.P. Mahadevan of the 
question and answer version of Vichara Sangraham, a compilation 
by Sri Natanananda of answers given by Sri Bhagavan to 40 
questions asked by Gambhiram Seshayyar between 1900 and 
1902, most of which are questions regarding the two paths of raja 
yoga and jnana yoga
Spiritual Instruction:  An English translation by Dr. T.M.P . Mahadevan of 
Upadesa Manjari, a Tamil work containing 70 questions and answers 
recorded by Sri Natanananda. Sri Bhagavan answers in a simple and 
easy manner questions regarding difficulties on the path.
Sri Ramana Gita:  Sanskrit  text of 300 verses by Kavyakantha Ganapati 
Muni some of which record questions by devotees and answers by Sri 
Bhagavan, and some of which are verses in praise of Him, with an English 
translation by Sri Viswanatha Swami and Prof. K. Swaminathan.
Who am I?:  About 1902, Sivaprakasam Pillai put several questions 
to the Maharshi and got answers to them in writing. These answers 
form the quintessence of Sri Bhagavan’s teachings. The English 
translation is by Dr T.M.P. Mahadevan.
Conscious Immortality:  A collection of dialogues with the Maharshi 
written down by Paul Brunton and Munagala Venkataramiah.689Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
COMPILATIONS  AND EXPOSITIONS  OF 
SRI BHAGAVAN ’S TEACHINGS
Gems from Bhagavan:  An extremely useful collection of Sri Bhagavan’s 
teachings, compiled and edited subject-wise by Devaraja Mudaliar. 
Incorporates the salient teachings of the Sage.
Guru Ramana Vachana Mala:  by ‘Who’ (K. Lakshmana Sharma), contains 
an English rendering of 350 Sanskrit verses embodying the teachings 
of Sri Bhagavan. About 300 of the verses are from Sri Muruganar’s 
Guru V achaka Kovai  (The Garland of the Guru’s Sayings).
Maha Yoga (or The Upanishadic Lore in the Light of the Teachings 
of Bhagavan Sri Ramana) by ‘WHO’:  A profound exposition which 
elucidates many important and subtle points in Sri Bhagavan’s 
teachings, thereby providing a firm theoretical foundation on which 
to understand the practical side of His teachings.
Reflections on Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi:  by S.S. Cohen: 
Detailed notes on selected passages from Talks with Sri Ramana 
Maharshi, arranged subject-wise into fourteen chapters.
The Teachings of Bhagavan Sri Ramana Maharshi in His 
Own Words:  edited by Arthur Osborne: Selected passages from 
the works of Sri Bhagavan and from Talks, Day by Day and other 
books, with brief explanatory notes.
COMMENTARIES  ON SRI BHAGAVAN ’S WORKS
Arunachala Siva:  by Dr.T.M.P. Mahadevan: A commentary on Sri 
Arunachala Aksharamanamalai (The Bridal Garland of Letters) 
and Sri Arunachala Pancharatnam (The Five Gems in Praise of 
Arunachala), two of the Five Hymns sung by Sri Bhagavan. 
Ramana Maharshi and His Philosophy of Existence:  by Dr. T.M. P . 
Mahadevan: A learned and scholarly commentary upon Sri Bhagavan’s 
Ulladu  Narpadu (The Forty V erses on Reality) and Anubandham (The 
Supplement), and some reflections upon His life and teachings.
Sat-Darshana Bhashya:  by Kapali Sastri: A commentary upon 
Sat-Darshanam (a free Sanskrit verse-rendering by Kavyakantha 
Ganapati Muni of Sri Bhagavan’s Tamil work Ulladu Narpadu), 
preceded by a record of some dialogues with Sri Bhagavan .690Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
The Cardinal Teaching of the Maharshi:  by Kapali Sastri: An 
English translation of a Sanskrit commentary on Sri Arunachala 
Pancharatnam (The Five Gems in Praise of Arunachala), one of 
the Five Hymns sung by Sri Bhagavan.
BIOGRAPHIES  OF SRI BHAGAVAN
Bhagavan Ramana:  by Dr. T.M.P. Mahadevan: A sketch of Sri 
Bhagavan’s life, reprinted from the introduction to Ramana 
Maharshi and His Philosophy of Existence.
Bhagavan Sri Ramana - A Pictorial Biography:  Compiled and 
designed by Joan and Matthew Greenblatt: an aesthetically presented 
biography, profusely illustrated in colour and black and white, with 
many quotations from Sri Bhagavan and old devotees.
Ramana Maharshi:  by Prof K. Swaminathan: A biography which 
depicts Sri Bhagavan both as a man and as a master, giving an 
account of His life and His works.
Ramana Maharshi and the Path of Self-Knowledge:  by Arthur 
Osborne: A popular biography which has done much to spread 
knowledge of Sri Bhagavan both in India and abroad.
Self-Realization:  by B.V. Narasimhaswami: The earliest major 
biography of Sri Bhagavan, first published in 1931, and now 
containing an epilogue by S.S. Cohen.
Sri Maharshi - A Short Life-Sketch:  by M.S. Kamath: A profusely 
illustrated biography written in a simple style.
The Last Days and Maha Nirvana of Bhagavan Sri Ramana:  A 
small booklet that paints a moving picture of the final days of the 
Maharshi. Also contains photographs taken during the period.
REMINISCENCES  ABOUT  SRI BHAGAVAN
A Sadhu’s Reminiscences of Ramana Maharshi:  by Sadhu 
Arunachala (A.W.Chadwick): Reminiscences of an unassuming 
English devotee, who came to Sri Bhagavan in 1935 and who 
remained in Tiruvannamalai almost permanently till his passing 
away in 1962. Contains moving passages that transport the reader 
directly into the presence of Sri Bhagavan.691Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
At the Feet of Bhagavan:  by T. K. Sundaresa Aiyer: Leaves from 
the diary of a humble devotee who lived most of his life with Sri 
Bhagavan.
Crumbs from His Table:  by Ramanananda Swarnagiri (K. S. 
Narayanaswami Aiyer): Reminiscences of a devotee who visited 
Sri Bhagavan several times during the years 1934 to 1936, and 
who noted down instructive conversations and illustrative stories 
told by Sri Bhagavan.
Glimpses of the Life and Teachings of Bhagavan Sri Ramana 
Maharshi:  by Frank Humphreys: An account of several meetings 
with Sri Bhagavan in the year 1911, and of the teachings received 
from Him, related by His earliest European devotee.
Guru Ramana:  by S.S.Cohen: Reminiscences about Sri Bhagavan 
and a record of many conversations with Him, concluding with a 
diary narrating the events of the last two years of His bodily life.
Letters and Recollections of Sri Ramanasramam:  by Suri Nagamma: 
31 letters which were not included in the English version of Letters 
from Sri Ramanasramam, together with some other reminiscences.
My Life at Sri Ramanasramam:  by Suri Nagamma: Further 
reminiscences by the author of Letters from Sri Ramanasramam.
My Recollections of Bhagavan Sri Ramana:  by Devaraja Mudaliar: 
Reminiscences told in a charming and unassuming style by the 
author of Day by Day with Bhagavan.
My Reminiscences:  by N. Balarama Reddy: The author records his 
experiences with Sri Bhagavan.
Reminiscences:  by Kunju Swami: This staunch devotee records many 
rare incidents and about little known devotees of Sri Bhagavan.
Residual Reminiscences of Ramana:  by S.S. Cohen: A supplement 
to Guru Ramana by the same author.
Sri Ramana Reminiscences:  by G.V . Subbaramayya: A personal 
account of the author’s moving experiences with Sri Bhagavan 
between the years 1933 and 1950.
Sri Ramana the Self Supreme:   by Prof K. Swaminathan: The 
author’s talks and articles, describing the impact made on him by 
Sri Bhagavan, are presented here.692Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
The Bloom of Inner Glory:  by N.N. Rajan: The author writes on Sri 
Bhagavan and explains his teachings in a clear manner.
The Guiding Presence of Sri Ramana:  by K.K. Nambiar: This 
devotee moved intimately with Sri Bhagavan. He recounts his 
profound experiences here.
MISCELLANEOUS  BOOKS  ON SRI BHAGAVAN
Arunachala:  Holy Hill  by R. Henninger: History of the Arunachala 
Hill. Also a useful guide book containing maps and descriptions 
of various sites around Arunachala.
Be Still, it is the Wind that Sings:  by Arthur Osborne: An anthology 
of inspiring essays and beautiful poems gathered from The 
Mountain Path .
Bhagavan and Nayana:  by S. Shankaranarayanan: An account of
the relationship between Sri Bhagavan and His famous devotee 
Nayana (Kavyakantha Ganapati Muni). Also contains many of 
Nayana’s works.
Buddhism and Christianity in the Light of Hinduism:  by Arthur 
Osborne: The author explains concepts of Advaita with clear illustrations 
of views and comparisions from Buddhism and Christianity.
For Those with Little Dust:  by Arthur Osborne: Editorials, articles 
and poems on Sri Bhagavan and his teachings, selected from The 
Mountain Path .
Forty Verses in Praise of Sri Ramana:  An English translation of Sri 
Ramana Chatvarimsat, a Sanskrit hymn composed by Kavyakantha 
Ganapathi Muni in praise of Sri Bhagavan. This hymn is chanted 
daily before the Samadhi  of Sri Bhagavan.
The Garland of the Guru’s Sayings (Guru V achaka Kovai):  Translated 
from Tamil by Prof K. Swaminathan from Sri Muruganar’s original. 
This work in poetry form embodies a precise, systematic and 
authoritative exposition of the Maharshi’s teachings.  
Hunting the I according to Sri Ramana Maharshi:  by Lucy 
Cornelssen: A collection of essays on various aspects of the life 
and teachings of Sri Bhagavan.693Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Ramana-Arunachala:  by Arthur Osborne: A collection of essays on 
the life and teachings of Sri Bhagavan.
Ramana’s Arunachala:  by Devotees of Sri Bhagavan: A compendium 
on Arunachala — the Hill, the temple, its history and legends — all 
lucidly explained with map and descriptions. Also an insight into 
Sri Bhagavan’s life and his relationship with Arunachala. 
Sri Ramana Stuti Panchakam:  An English translation of five Tamil 
songs composed by Satyamangalam Venkataramaiyer in praise of 
Sri Bhagavan.
Spiritual Stories as told by Sri Bhagavan:  Sri Bhagavan was a 
consummate storyteller. This is a collection of stories of great 
devotees of the Lord as narrated by Sri Bhagavan.  
The Cow Lakshmi:  by Devaraja Mudaliar: An account of the famous 
cow which attained liberation by the Grace of Sri Bhagavan.
The Glory of Arunachala:  by M.C. Subramanian: An adaptation 
from the Tamil translation of the original Sanskrit.
The Maharshi:  by Kapali Sastri: A collection of the author’s dairy 
selections, articles and translations from Sanskrit compositions. 
Kapali Sastri was a devotee of Sri Bhagavan and disciple of 
Kavyakantha Ganapati Muni.
The Maharshi and His Message by Paul Brunton:  A reprint of three 
chapters from A Search in Secret India, the book which first made 
Sri Bhagavan widely known outside India.
Thus Spake Ramana edited by Swami Rajeswarananda:  A 
pocket-size book containing 125 passages selected from Sri 
Bhagavan’s teachings.
ANCIENT  SCRIPTURES  REFERRED  TO BY SRI BHAGAVAN
Advaita Bodha Deepika (Lamp of Non-Dual Knowledge):  An English 
translation by Munagala V enkataramiah (the recorder of Talks with Sri 
Ramana Maharshi) of a Sanskrit work by Sri Karapatra Swami.
Jewel Garland of Enquiry:  An English translation of Vichara Mani 
Malai; a compilation by Sri Bhagavan of salient points from the Tamil 
version of Vichara Sagara (The Ocean of Enquiry), a voluminous 
work originally written in Hindi by Mahatma Nischaldas.694Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Kaivalya Navaneeta (The Cream of Emancipation):  An English 
translation by Munagala Venkataramiah of a classical Tamil work 
on Advaita philosophy.
The Song Celestial:  42 verses from the Bhagavad Gita, selected
and reset by Sri Bhagavan, with an English translation and 
explanatory notes.
Tripura Rahasya (or The Mystery beyond the Trinity):  An English 
translation by Munagala Venkataramiah of an ancient Sanskrit work 
on Advaita philosophy.
Yoga Vasishta Sara:  An English translation of 230 verses from the 
Yoga Vasishta.
SOUVENIR  AND JOURNAL
Advent Centenary Souvenir:  A collection of articles by devotees 
on Sri Bhagavan. Released on the occasion of the centenary 
celebrations of Sri Bhagavan’s Advent at Arunachala in 1996. 
Golden Jubilee Souvenir:  A collection of articles by veteran devotees 
and scholars released on the occasion of Sri Bhagavan’s completion 
of 50 years at Arunachala in 1946 
Ramana Smrti:  A souvenir published in 1980 to commemorate the 
birth centenary of Sri Bhagavan, consisting of more than 60 articles 
by devotees both old and new, many of which contain previously 
unpublished reminiscences.
The Mountain Path:  A journal dedicated to Sri Bhagavan, the aim of 
which is to set forth the traditional wisdom of all religions and all ages, 
especially as testified to by their saints and mystics, and to clarify the 
paths available to seekers in the conditions of our modern world.
___________________
For details regarding the current prices of the above books, 
please contact:
Sri Ramanasramam Book-Depot, Sri Ramanasramam P.0.,
Tiruvannamalai 606 603. South India.
e-mail: ashram@ramana-maharshi.org
website: http://www.ramana-maharshi.org