Talk 400.
In the course of another conversation Sri Bhagavan said: Photisms 
add zest to meditation and nothing more.
16th April, 1937
Talk 401.
Mr. Krishnamurti, an Andhra gentleman, asked as follows:- When 
we make tapas , on what object must we fix our sight? Our mind is 
fixed on what we utter.
A: What is tapas  for?
Q: For Self-Realisation.
A: Quite so. Tapas  depends on the competency of the person. One 
requires a form to contemplate. But it is not enough. For can anyone 
keep looking at an image always? So the image must be implemented 
by japa. Japa helps fixing the mind on the image, in addition to the 
eyesight. The result of these efforts is concentration of mind, which 
ends in the goal. He becomes what he thinks. Some are satisfied with the 
name of the image. Every form must have a name. That name denotes 
all the qualities of God. Constant japa puts off all other thoughts and 
fixes the mind. That is tapas . One-pointedness is the tapas  wanted.
The question what tapas  is was asked in order to know what purpose 
to serve. It will take the form required for the purpose.
Q: Are not physical austerities also tapas ?
A: May be one form of it. They are due to vairagya  (dispassion) .
Q: I have seen a man with his arm lifted all his life.391Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: That is vairagya .
Q: Why should one afflict his body for the purpose?
A: You think it is affliction whereas it is a vow and for the other man 
it is an achievement and a pleasure.
Dhyana  may be external or internal or both. Japa  is more important 
than external form. It must be done until it becomes natural. It 
starts with effort and is continued until it proceeds of itself. When 
natural it is called Realisation.
Japa  may be done even while engaged in other work. That which 
is, the One Reality. It may be represented by a form, a japa, 
mantra, vichara  or any kind of attempt. All of them finally resolve 
themselves into that One Single Reality. Bhakti, vichara, japa  are 
only different forms of our efforts to keep out the unreality. The 
unreality is an obsession at present. Reality is our true nature. We 
are wrongly persisting in unreality, that is, thoughts and worldly 
activities. Cessation of these will reveal the Truth. Our attempts 
are directed towards keeping them out. It is done by thinking of 
the Reality only. Although it is our true nature it looks as if we are 
thinking of the Reality. What we do really amounts to the removal 
of obstacles for the revelation of our true Being. Meditation or 
vichara  is thus a reversion to our true nature.
Q: Are our attempts sure to succeed?
A: Realisation is our nature. It is nothing new to be gained. What is 
new cannot be eternal. Therefore there is no need for doubting if 
one would lose or gain the Self.
Talk 402.
While speaking of the Brain and the Heart Sri Bhagavan recalled an 
incident of old days as follows:-
Kavyakantha Ganapati Muni once argued that the brain was the most 
important centre and Sri Bhagavan maintained that the Heart was even 
more so. There were others watching the discourse. A few days after 
Sri Bhagavan received a letter containing a short poem in English on 
that discourse from a young boy, N. S. Arunachalam, who had not 
yet matriculated.392Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
That poem is remarkable for its poetic imagination. Sri Bhagavan, 
Kavyakantha, and the assemblage of other persons are represented 
as the Heart, the brain and the body respectively, and again as the 
sun, the moon and the earth also. The light from the sun is reflected 
on the moon and the earth is illumined. Similarly the brain acts by 
consciousness derived from the Heart and the body is thus protected. 
This teaching of Sri Bhagavan is found in Ramana Gita  also. The 
Heart is the most important centre from which vitality and light radiate 
to the brain, thus enabling it to function. The vasanas  are enclosed 
in the Heart in their subtlest form, later flowing to the brain which 
reflects them highly magnified corresponding to a cinema-show at 
every stage. That is how the world is said to be nothing more than a 
cinema-show.
Sri Bhagavan also added:-  Were the vasanas  in the brain instead of 
in the Heart they must be extinguished if the head is cut off so that 
reincarnations will be at an end. But it is not so. The Self obviously 
safeguards the vasanas  in its closest proximity, i.e. within itself in the 
Heart, just as a miser keeps his most valued possessions (treasure) with 
himself and never out of contact. Hence the place where the vasanas  are, 
is the Self, i.e., the Heart, and not the brain (which is only the theatre 
for the play of the vasanas  from the greenhouse of the Heart.)
17th April, 1937
Talk 403.
There was some reference to the extract from the Modern Psychological 
Review , wondering if any instruments could be of use in detecting 
the Heart-centre and if proper subjects were available for recording 
the experience of the adepts in the spiritual path, and so on. Others 
were speaking. Sri Bhagavan said: In the incident mentioned in the 
book Self-Realization  that I became unconscious and symptoms of 
death supervened, I was all along aware. I could feel the action of 
the physical heart stopped and equally the action of the Heart-centre 
unimpaired. This state lasted about a quarter of an hour.
We asked if it was true that some disciples have had the privilege of feeling 
Sri Bhagavan’s Heart-centre to be on the right by placing their hands on 393Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Sri Bhagavan’s chest. Sri Bhagavan said, "Yes." (Mr. Viswanatha Iyer, 
Narayana Reddi and others have said they felt Sri Bhagavan’s Heart-
centre to be on the right by placing their hands on his chest).
A devotee rightly observed that if hands could feel and locate the 
Heart-centre, delicate scientific instruments should certainly do it.
Q: The Heart is said to be on the right, on the left or in the centre. With 
such differences of opinion how are we to meditate on Hridaya ?
A: You are and it is a fact. Dhyana  is by you, of you, and in you. It 
must go on where you are. It cannot be outside you. So you are 
the centre of dhyana and that is the Heart.
A location is however given to it with reference to the body. You 
know that you are. Where are you? You are in the body and not 
out of it. Yet not the whole body. Though you pervade the whole 
body still you admit of a centre where from all your thoughts start 
and wherein they subside. Even when the limbs are amputated you 
are there but with defective senses. So a centre must be admitted. 
That is called the Heart. The Heart is not merely the centre but the 
Self. Heart is only another name for the Self.
Doubts arise only when you identify it with something tangible 
and physical. The scriptures no doubt describe it as the source of 
101 nadis , etc. In Yoga Vasishta  Chudala says that kundalini  is 
composed of 101 nadis , thus identifying one with the other.
Heart is no conception, no object for meditation. But it is the seat 
of meditation; the Self remains all alone. You see the body in the 
Heart, the world in it. There is nothing separate from it. So all kinds 
of effort are located there only.
18th April, 1937
Talk 404.
A casual visitor asked: What is nishta ? How is the look to be directed 
between the eyebrows?
A: How do we see these things? There is a light by which these are 
seen. Your question amounts to asking how that light is seen.
Q: What is the significance of the spot between the eyebrows?394Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: That is mentioned as if to say: "Do not see with your eyes."
Q: What is regulation of breath for?
A: Only to control the mind.
Again after a few minutes Sri Bhagavan continued: The mind 
functions both as light and as objects. If divested of things the 
light alone will remain over.
Q: But we must know that there is such light.
A: Sight or cognition is impossible without such light. How do you 
cognise anything in sleep? Our cognition pertains to the present 
state because there is light. Light is the essential requisite for sight. 
It is plain in our daily life. Among the lights, sunlight is the most 
important. Hence they speak of the glory of millions of suns.
Q: There is light if we press the eyelids with our fingers.
Another questioner:  What is the use of seeing such a light?
A: It is done lest we forget the goal. The practice helps one not to 
divert the attention to other pursuits.
The object is seen or the light is recognised because there is the 
subject to do so. How does it affect the subject whether the objects 
are seen or not? If the light, i.e., the cogniser or the consciousness 
is seen, there will be no object to be seen. Pure light, i.e., 
Consciousness, will alone remain over.
Q: Why then is the regulation of breath necessary?
A: Control of breath or its regulation is only for controlling the mind 
so that the mind may not wander away.
Q: Is it for control of mind only?
A: It is not enough that light is seen; it is also necessary to have the 
mind engaged in a single activity, e.g., the elephant trunk and the 
chain.
Q: How long will it take for one to gain Chintamani  (the celestial 
gem granting all the wishes of its owner)?
A: The example of Chintamani  is found in Yoga Vasishta . Chintamani  
signifies the Real nature of the Self. The story is as follows:-
A man was making tapasya  for gaining Chintamani . A gem 
mysteriously fell into his hands. He thought that it could not be 395Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Chintamani  because his efforts had been too short and too little 
to gain the gem. He discarded it and continued the tapas . Later 
a sadhu  placed before him a brilliant pebble with facets cut. The 
man was taken in by its appearance but found that it could not fulfil 
his desires as he originally supposed. Similarly, the Self, being 
inherent, should not be sought for elsewhere.
Again, an elephant used to be often teased by its keeper. He once 
had an accident and fell down. The elephant could have killed him 
on the spot but did not do so. Later, however, the keeper dug a big 
pit in the forest and killed the elephant.
Chudala illustrated Sikhidhvaja’s error by this story. He had vairagya  
even while ruling his kingdom and could have realised the Self if 
only he had pushed his vairagya  to the point of killing the ego. He 
did not do it, but came to the forest, had a timetable of tapas  and yet 
did not improve even after 18 years of tapas . He had made himself 
a victim of his own creation. Chudala advised him to give up the 
ego and realise the Self which he did and was liberated.
It is clear from Chudala’s story that vairagya  accompanied by 
ego is of no value, whereas all possessions in the absence of ego 
do not matter.
19th April, 1937
Talk 405.
A respectable and orthodox gentleman asked about Sri Chakra.
A: It has a deep significance. There are 43 corners with sacred 
syllables in them. Its worship is a method for concentration of 
mind. The mind is wont to move externally. It must be checked 
and turned within. Its habit is to dwell on names and forms, 
for all external objects possess names and forms. Such names 
and forms are made symbolic mental conceptions in order to 
divert the mind from external objects and make it dwell within 
itself. The idols, mantras, yantras , are all meant to give food to 
the mind in its introvert state, so that It may later become capable 
of being concentrated, after which the superb state is reached 
automatically.396Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
20th April, 1937
Talk 406.
Mr. Cohen, a resident disciple, has been for some days past thinking 
about a book called Nirvana  written by a prominent Theosophist, 
wherein the author claims to reach nirvana  every night after going 
to sleep. He claims to see his own Master and other Masters of the 
Theosophical Society as bright lights within the ocean of light which is 
nirvana . He asked Sri Bhagavan how it could be possible, considering 
the Advaitic  teaching that the nirvanic  experience is the same as that 
of the pure consciousness of Being.
A: Nirvana  is Perfection. In the Perfect State there is neither subject 
nor object; there is nothing to see, nothing to feel, nothing to know. 
Seeing and knowing are the functions of the mind. In nirvana  there 
is nothing but the blissful pure consciousness "I am."
Q: How then can a prominent T. S. leader, who claims clairvoyance  
of a high order, praise the author for his supposed correct and vivid 
description of nirvana , and why is the T. Society so much obsessed 
by the idea of ‘Service’?
A: Well, Theosophy and other kindred movements are good inasmuch 
as they make a man unselfish and prepare him for the highest truth. 
Service, like prayers, japas  and even business done in God’s name, 
lead to the highest goal - Self-Realisation.
Q: But after how long? and why should a man who is ready for the 
Absolute knowledge stick to the knowledge of the Relative?
A: Everything happens in its own time. The one who is ready for 
the absolute knowledge will be made somehow to hear of it and 
follow it up. He will realise that Atmavidya  is the highest of all 
virtues and also the end of the journey.
Then, asked about the difference between external and internal nirvikalpa 
samadhis , referring to article 391 above, the Master said:
External samadhi  is holding on to the Reality while witnessing 
the world, without reacting to it from within. There is the stillness 
of a waveless ocean. The internal samadhi  involves loss of body-
consciousness.397Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: Is loss of body-consciousness a perquisite to the attainment of 
sahaja samadhi ?
A: What is body-consciousness? Analyse it. There must be a body 
and consciousness limited to it which together make up body-
consciousness. These must lie in another Consciousness which is 
absolute and unaffected. Hold it. That is samadhi. 
It exists when there is no body-consciousness because it transcends 
the latter, it also exists when there is the body-consciousness. So 
it is always there. 
What does it matter whether body-consciousness is lost or retained? 
When lost it is internal samadhi:  when retained, it is external 
samadhi.  That is all.
A person must remain in any of the six samadhis  so that sahaja 
samadhi  may be easy for him.
Q: The mind does not sink into that state even for a second.
A: A strong conviction is necessary that I am the Self, transcending 
the mind and the phenomena.
Q: Nevertheless, the mind proves to be a cord against attempts to 
sink it.
A: What does it matter if the mind is active? It is so only on the 
substratum of the Self. Hold the Self even during mental activities.
Q: I cannot go within sufficiently deep.
A: It is wrong to say so. Where are you now if not in the Self? Where 
should you go? 
All that is necessary is the stern belief that you are the Self. Say 
rather that the other activities throw a veil on you.
Q: Yes, it is so.
A: That means that the conviction is weak.
Q: I understand that the ‘I’ is only artificial ( krtrima ), my attempts 
at realising the real ‘I’ are unavailing because the artificial ‘I’ is 
brought into action for realising the other.
A: Viveka Chudamani  makes it clear that the artificial ‘I’ of the 
vijnana kosa  is a projection and through it one must look to the 
significance ( vachya ) of ‘I’, the true principle.398Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 407.
Q: St. Theresa and others saw the image of Madonna animated. It was 
external. Others see the images of their devotion in their mental sight. 
This is internal. Is there any difference in degree in these two cases?
A: Both indicate that the person has strongly developed meditation. 
Both are good and progressive. There is no difference in degree.
The one has a conception of divinity and draws mental images and 
feels them. The other has the conception of divinity in the image 
and feels it in the image. The feeling is within in both instances.
21st April, 1937
Talk 408.
With reference to the location of the Heart centre on the right side of 
the human body, Sri Bhagavan said:-
I had been saying all along that the Heart centre was on the right, 
notwithstanding the refutation by some learned men that physiology taught 
them otherwise. I speak from experience. I knew it even in my home during 
my trances. Again during the incident related in the book Self-Realisation  I 
had a very clear vision and experience. All of a sudden a light came from 
one side erasing the world vision in its course until it spread all round 
when the vision of the world was completely cut out. I felt the muscular 
organ on the left had stopped work, I could understand that the body 
was like a corpse, that the circulation of blood had stopped and the body 
became blue and motionless. V asudeva Sastri embraced the body, wept 
over my death, but I could not speak. All the time I was feeling that the 
Heart centre on the right was working as well as ever. This state continued 
15 or 20 minutes. Then suddenly something shot out from the right to 
the left resembling a rocket bursting in air. The blood circulation was 
resumed and normal condition restored. I then asked V asudeva Sastri to 
move along with me and we reached our residence.
The Upanishads say that 101 nadis  terminate in the Heart and 72,000 
originate from them and traverse the body. The Heart is thus the centre 
of the body. It can be a centre because we have been accustomed to 
think that we remain in the body. In fact the body and all else are in 
that centre only.399Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
REMINISCENCES
Talk 409.
A middle-aged man prostrated himself before Sri Bhagavan, who 
asked him about his well-being. After a few minutes Sri Bhagavan 
recalled an incident saying that this was the only person whom Sri 
Bhagavan had slapped; it happened about 30 years earlier.
Sri Bhagavan was living in Mulaippal Tirtha. There was a Jada Swami 
living in the neighbourhood ( Mamarathu Guhai ). This man, who was 
then about 8 years of age, used to play pranks with all, including Sri 
Bhagavan. 
One day he went to Maharshi and said that Jada Swami wanted a 
bucket. Without waiting for permission, he took away the bucket. 
Palani Swami the attendant, was not there. So Sri Bhagavan followed 
the boy to Jada Swami’s place. Before Bhagavan reached the place the 
boy had told the other that Brahmanaswami had sent him a bucket. 
Jada Swami was wondering why! In a few minutes Maharshi reached 
the place and learnt what had passed. So he raised His hand to give 
a slap to the boy but the mind would not yield to slapping. But He 
argued within Himself and determined that the urchin should be 
slapped and so he did it.
Talk 410.
There is a Tamil stanza by Awai. It is an address of the prana  to the 
stomach; its meaning is:
"O stomach! How difficult it is to get on with you! You cannot starve 
when no food is available, nor can you take more and keep it in reserve 
when food is plenty! You will take only what you want and when you 
want; thus you are troublesome to me, allowing me no rest."
Sri Bhagavan altered it thus: Stomach addressing the prana : "O Prana ! 
How troublesome you are to me! You never allow me to rest but 
continue loading me with food off and on. It is so difficult to get on 
with you."
Saying it Sri Bhagavan laughed. Sri Bhagavan often says that He is 
made to eat more than is good for Him.400Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
21st May, 1937
Talk 411.
Sri Bhagavan, while speaking of the marriage ceremony among the 
Brahmins, said that the Kasiyatra  represents the bridegroom to be a 
vairagi-purusha . It is therefore right that he should be given a kanya  
(virgin) for leading a householder’s life. It follows that a vairagi  can 
alone be a good householder.
Talk 412.
Once on a cold day Sri Bhagavan was sitting in a cave on the hill with 
His hands folded on the breast as a protection against the cold. Some 
Andhra visitor had come; he broke a coconut and poured the cold juice 
on Sri Bhagavan’s head as abhisheka ; Sri Bhagavan was surprised.
Talk 413.
A visitor asked:  While making nama-japa  and after continuing it for 
an hour or more I fall into a state like sleep. On waking up, I recollect 
that my japa has been interrupted. So I proceed again.
A: "Like sleep." That is right. It is the natural state. Because you 
are now associated with the ego you consider the natural state to 
be something which interrupts your work. You must repeat the 
experience until you realise that it is your natural state. You will 
then find that japa, etc., is extraneous. Still, it will be going on 
automatically. Your present doubt is due to the false identity.
Japa  means clinging to one thought to the exclusion of all other 
thoughts. That is the purpose of japa; it leads to dhyana  which 
ends in Self-Realisation.
Talk 414.
Mr. G. V . Subbaramiah, a devotee, has written some short poems, 
which are interesting. Some of them refer to a child. Sri Bhagavan said 
God becomes a child, and vice versa . That means that the samskaras  
are yet latent in the child and thus its innocence is complete. When 
they are eradicated even a grown up man becomes a child once again, 
and thus remains God.401Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
The author said:  The child creates the ‘home’ atmosphere.
Sri Bhagavan:  Yes. The children are always in the ‘home’. We too 
are there but are dreaming and imagining that we are outside the 
home.
Sri Bhagavan added:  I have rendered the word ‘youth’ ( yuva ) 
in Dakshinamurti Stotra  by ‘child’ ( bala).  This seems more 
appropriate.
To be reborn is to become children over again. One must be reborn 
before gaining  jnana , i.e., recovering the natural state.
Talk 415.
Sri Bhagavan read out some stanzas on the greatness of the Tamil 
language from the preface to a Tamil-Tamil Dictionary and explained 
the references in a very interesting manner. Of the three tests for 
establishing the superiority of Saivism over Jainism, the first related 
to Tirujnanasambandar entering the royal presence for curing the 
Pandya king of his illness. The queen was anxious because of his 
tender age, i.e., 12 years. Tirujnanasambandar set her doubts at rest 
by composing a stanza which said that, though tender, he was more 
than a match to the strong group of innumerable Jains. While reciting 
the stanza Sri Bhagavan choked and could not proceed with it.
The second test was the fire leaving the cadjan leaf unburnt, and the third 
the cadjan leaves opposing the current of the river (Tiruvedakam).
Sri Bhagavan also related the story of God Isvara begging food as an 
old man, taking food as a youth and saving the devotee woman as a 
babe, all at once.
He again pointed out ‘like babe, lunatic, spirit’ ( Balonmattapisachavat ) 
describing the states of jnanis . There babe ( bala) is given precedence 
over others.
Talk 416.
Sri Bhagavan said that Kamba Ramayana  consists of 12,000 stanzas 
to Valmiki’s 24,000.  Kamba’s can be understood only by the learned 
and not by all. Tulasidas had heard Kamba Ramayana  recited to him 
in Hindi by a Tamil saint and later wrote his famous Ramayana.402Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 417.
The Perfect Master  is a book on Meher Baba published in 1937.
There is an incident of a ship’s officer instructing the reluctant 
Immigration Officer to let Baba and his party land in New York, 
USA. When one of the party went to thank him he was nowhere 
to be found.
The incident is recorded so as to leave an impression of a miracle 
happening in favour of Baba. The passage was read out to Sri 
Bhagavan.
Bhagavan said : Yes, yes, what of that?
Q: Is it a miracle?
A: Maybe. But did not the Immigration Officer recognise the other 
to be his superior officer whose orders should be obeyed? There is 
an end of the matter. If a man of Baba’s party could not find him 
- well, it may be due to several reasons.
Talk 418.
Asked if Sri Bhagavan had read Kamba Ramayana , Sri Bhagavan 
said: No. I have not read anything. All my learning is limited to what 
I learnt before my 14th year. 
Since then I have had no inclination to read or learn. People wonder 
how I speak of Bhagavad Gita, etc. It is due to hearsay. I have not 
read Gita nor waded through commentaries for its meaning. When I 
hear a sloka I think that its meaning is clear and I say it. That is all 
and nothing more. 
Similarly with my other quotations. They come out naturally. I realise 
that the Truth is beyond speech and intellect. Why then should I project 
the mind to read, understand and repeat stanzas, etc.? Their purpose 
is to know the Truth. The purpose having been gained, there is no 
use engaging in studies.
Someone remarked: If Sri Bhagavan had been inclined to study there 
would not be a saint today.
A: Probably all my studies were finished in past births and I was surfeit. 
There is therefore no samskara  operating now in that direction.403Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 419.
The week before the Mahapuja (3rd June, 1937) has brought many 
visitors including some relatives of Sri Bhagavan. There is among 
them an elderly lady - the widow of Subbier in whose house Sri 
Bhagavan was living when he left home in August 1896 .
Old memories revived when Sri Bhagavan saw her.
He remembered how on a festive occasion he was asked to help her 
in making some modakas  (delicacies), but he hesitated and finally 
refused, because he was obliged to change his clothes and he could 
put on only koupina  (loin-cloth or codpiece) which made him feel shy. 
He was reprimanded by his uncle and this lady. The uncle’s wife said 
with humility and gentleness: "Quite. No wonder that one destined 
for this high state could not do such humble work in those days."
Then Sri Bhagavan remarked, "If I refused to wear koupina  once, I 
am now made to pay the penalty by wearing it always."
The lady recalled to her mind how Sri Ramana was suffering from 
headache for several days together.
Sri Bhagavan said:  Yes, yes! It was the month before I left Madura. It was 
not headache, but an inexpressible anguish which I suppressed at the 
time; these were however the outward symptoms which, I said, were 
due to headache. I remember how anxious you grew on account of my 
headache. Y ou used to rub some ointment on my forehead every day. 
My anguish continued until I left Madura and reached this place.
4th June, 1937
Talk 420.
A certain lawyer from Cuddalore quoted as follows: "Neither the  
sun shines there, nor the moon, nor the stars, nor lightning. How 
can fire shine there? All these luminaries shine in His Light only. 
With His Light, all these shine forth!" He asked, what does ‘with 
His Light’ mean here? Does all else shine on account of Him, or 
in His Light?
A: There is only He. He and His Light are the same. There is no 
individual to perceive other things, because the perceiver and the 
perceived are only He. The sun, the moon, etc., shine forth. How?  404Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Do they come and tell you that they shine forth or does another 
apart from them say that they shine forth?
Q: Of course I say that they shine forth.
A: Therefore they shine on account of you. Again consciousness is 
necessary to know that they shine forth. That consciousness is your 
Self or you. So then you or your consciousness is the same as He 
and His Light by which all else shine forth.
Q: Is that Light like sunlight?
A: No. The sunlight is jada (insentient). You are aware of it. It 
makes objects perceptible and chases away darkness, whereas 
consciousness is that Light which makes not only light but also 
darkness perceptible. Darkness cannot exist before sunlight, 
but it can remain in the Light of Consciousness. Similarly, this 
consciousness is pure Knowledge in which both knowledge and 
ignorance shine.
Q: If God is all why does the individual suffer for his actions? Are not the 
actions prompted by Him for which the individual is made to suffer?
A: He who thinks he is the doer is also the sufferer.
Q: But the actions are prompted by God and the individual is only 
His tool.
A: This logic is applied only when one suffers, but not when one 
rejoices. If the conviction prevails always, there will be no suffering 
either.
Q: When will the suffering cease?
A: Not until individuality is lost. If both the good and bad actions are 
His, why should you think that the enjoyment and suffering are alone 
yours? He who does good or bad, also enjoys pleasure or suffers pain. 
Leave it there and do not superimpose suffering on yourself.
Talk 421.
A resident devotee, Kunju Swami, related an observation of Sri 
Maharshi after the robbery in the Asramam in 1923 .
Some disciples were asking why the robbers should be allowed to 
molest even sadhus  and why the sadhus  would not protect themselves 
and their dependents from the robbers.405Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Sri Bhagavan observed: There were rishis  like Visvamitra who 
could duplicate the universe if they wished. They lived during the 
lifetime of Ravana who caused agony even to Sita and Rama among 
others. Could not Visvamitra have destroyed Ravana by his occult 
powers? Though capable he kept still. Why? The occurrences are 
known to the sages, but pass away without leaving an impression on 
their minds. Even a deluge will appear a trifle to them; they do not 
care for anything.
7th June, 1937
Talk 422.
Dr. Venkata Rao, a visitor from Guntur, asked : A Guru asks his disciple 
to do things contrary to ethical principles. But the disciple, having 
accepted the person as the master, desires to please the master 
but his moral sense obstructs him. What should he do under the 
circumstances?
A: (No reply).
Q: I shall make myself clear. The Guru asked his disciple to commit a 
theft and the disciple did not do it. The master then said, "I wanted 
to test you to see if you had completely surrendered yourself or 
retained your individuality. It is now clear what it is." Is the Guru 
right in ordering the disciple that way?
A: (Still no reply).
Another person observed:  There are persons on whom I refuse to sit in 
judgement. Still I cannot help feeling if they deserve the appellation 
of Gurus. They appear bogus men. If they be really worthy they 
would not order the disciples in that way.
A: But the person says, "It is for a test."
The questioner continued:  Should it be carried out?
A: Your original statement contains the answer to your question.
Both the questioners jointly asked: The action is disagreeable. Can 
it be done?
A: The question might be referred to the person himself, i.e., the 
Guru. He is responsible for the situation.406Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 423.
A young man asked:  I try to cultivate will-power but do not succeed. 
How should I do it? 
A: (No answer)
Q: I came here three years ago and Sri Bhagavan said that will-power 
is necessary for strength of mind. Since then I have been desiring 
to cultivate it but without success.
A: (No answer)
Q: During these years I have had 4 or 5 reverses. They upset me 
considerably. There is always the fear of failure haunting my attempts. 
This results in want of faith in myself which certainly foredooms my 
efforts to failure. Nothing in fact succeeds like success; and also nothing 
foils one’s attempts like failure. Hence my question.
A: (No answer).
Q: Is not will-power necessary for success? It should ensure success 
and also rule out failure.
A: (No answer)
Q: I try to gain will-power. After these years I find myself only where 
I began. There is no progress.
A: (No answer)
Q: What are the means for gaining will-power?
A: Your idea of will-power is success insured. Will-power should be 
understood to be the strength of mind which makes it capable for 
meeting success or failure with equanimity. It is not synonymous 
with certain success. Why should one’s attempts be always attended 
with success? Success develops arrogance and the man’s spiritual 
progress is thus arrested. Failure on the other hand is beneficial, 
inasmuch as it opens the eyes of the man to his limitations and 
prepares him to surrender himself. Self-surrender is synonymous 
with eternal happiness. Therefore one should try to gain the 
equipoise of mind under all circumstances. That is will-power. 
Again, success and failure are the results of prarabdha  and not of 
will-power. A man may be doing only good and noble actions and 
yet prove a failure. Another may do otherwise and yet be uniformly 407Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
successful. This does not mean that the will-power is present in the 
one and not in the other.
Q: Is it not said in the book Truth Revealed  (Ulladu Narpadu ) that 
the world is a product of the mind?
A: Yes.
Q: Does it not follow that the mind grown strong brings the world 
under control?
A: The mind in its external activities gives rise to the world. Such 
activities fritter away the strength of the mind. Its strength lies in 
being confined to itself with the external activities arrested.
Q: There is an idiot who cannot count up to ten. His mind does not 
certainly wander as does that of a thinker. Is the former a better 
man than the latter?
A: Who says that he is an idiot? Y our mind in its wandering says so.
Q: Is will-power gained by divesting oneself of thoughts?
A: Rather by confining oneself to a single thought. Ultimately 
this will also disappear, leaving Pure Consciousness behind. 
Concentration helps one to it.
Q: So then, it is gained by directing the mind and concentrating it. 
The personality has nothing to do with it.
A: Personality is the root-cause of external activities. It must sink 
for gaining the highest good.
Talk 424.
In the course of conversation with a learned man who asked about 
Purusha  and Prakriti , Sri Bhagavan said:
Purusha  and Prakriti  are only the bifurcation of the one Supreme. 
They are surmised because the student has the sense of duality deep 
rooted. The same Gita also says that Purushottama  lies beyond 
Purusha  and Prakriti .
Q: What are para-nadi, Sushumna nadi  and the Heart?
A: But Sushumna  resolves into the para  (Sushumnatu pareleena ). 
Heart is usually understood to be the muscular organ lying on the 
left of the chest. The Modern Psychological Review speaks of the 408Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
physical organ on the left and the Heart centre on the right. The 
Bible says that a fool’s heart is on the left and a wise man’s on 
the right. Yoga Vasishta  says that there are two hearts; the one is 
samvit ; and the other the blood-vessel.
Q: What is Anahata ?
A: Anahata  is the chakra  lying behind the heart. It is not samvit . 
Lalita Sahasranama  has it, Anahata chakrasthayai namo namah  
(Salutations to the core situated in Anahata ) and the next mantra 
Hrit (in the Heart). Thus it is clear that Anahata  is not the same 
as Hrit.
Talk 425.
Will-power or any other is gained by practice ( abhyasa ).
Q: Is success not dependent on Guru’s Grace?
A: Yes, it is. Is not your practice itself due to such Grace? The fruits are 
the result of the practice and follow it automatically. There is a stanza 
in Kaivalya  which says, "O Guru! Y ou have been always with me 
watching me through several reincarnations, and ordaining my course 
until I was liberated." The Self manifests externally as Guru when 
occasion arises; otherwise He is always within, doing the needful.
12th June, 1937
Talk 426.
Mr. Das, of Allahabad University: Has the food which one usually 
takes anything to do with increase or decrease of one’s spirituality? 
That is, does it influence spirituality for good or bad?
A: Yes. Satvic  food in moderate quantity is helpful to spiritual 
development.
Q: For a grihi , i.e., a man of the world (householder), what conduct 
in life will help him most  spiritually?
A: Dhyana or bhakti , which mean the same thing.
Q: What is meant by taking the name of God? How to reconcile the 
following two ideas?
The Bible says: "Do not take the name of God in vain."409Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
The Hindu sastras  enjoin taking the name of God all the time.
A: One should not use the name of God artificially and superficially 
without feeling. To use the name of God one must call upon Him 
and surrender to Him unreservedly. After such surrender the name 
of God is constantly with the man.
Q: What are the fundamental tests for discovering men of great 
spirituality, since some are reported to behave like insane people?
A: The jnani’ s  mind is known only to the Jnani . One must be a Jnani  
oneself in order to understand another Jnani. However the peace of 
mind which permeates the saint’s atmosphere is the only means by 
which the seeker understands the greatness of the saint.
His words or actions or appearance are no indications of his 
greatness, for they are ordinarily beyond the comprehension of 
common people.
Q: Has man any Free-Will or is everything in his life predestined 
and preordained?
A: Free-Will holds the field in association with individuality. As long as 
individuality lasts so long there is Free-Will. All the sastras  are based on 
this fact and they advise directing the Free-Will in the right channel.
Find out to whom Free-Will or Destiny matters. Abide in it. Then 
these two are transcended. That is the only purpose of discussing 
these questions. To whom do these questions arise? Find out and 
be at peace.
Q: Are intellect and emotion, like the physical body, growths which come 
with the birth of man; and do they dissolve or survive after death?
A: Before considering what happens after death, just consider what 
happens in your sleep. Sleep is only the interval between two 
waking states. Do they survive that interval?
Q: Yes, they do.
A: The same holds good for death also. They represent body-
consciousness and nothing more. If you are the body they always 
hold on to you. If you are not the body they do not affect you. The 
one who was in sleep is now in waking state just speaking. You 
were not the body in sleep. Are you the body now? Find it out. 
Then the whole problem is solved.410Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Similarly, that which is born must die. Whose is the birth? Were 
you born? If you say you were, of whose birth are you speaking? 
It is the body which was born and it is that which will die. How 
do birth and death affect the eternal Self?
Think and say to whom the questions arise. Then you will know.
Talk 427.
Q: It is said that the Universe consists of light and sound. Are these 
two constituents like the light and sound in the physical world? 
Can they be seen and heard with the physical organs - eye and ear? 
Or are they to be experienced only subjectively?
A: Light and sound correspond to bindu  and nada  in Tantrik  
terminology, and to the mind and life-current in the Vedantic . They 
are gross, subtle and transcendental. The organs can perceive the 
gross aspect; the other aspects are not so perceptible. The subtle 
can be inferred and the transcendental is only transcendental.
Q: Hinduism lays down reincarnation of the jiva. What happens to 
the jiva during the interval between the death of one body and the 
birth of the next one?
A: Solve this question by referring to the state of sleep. What happens 
to you in sleep?
Q: I do not know.
A: Yet you exist. Therefore existence beyond knowledge and ignorance is 
indicated. Although ignorance was prevailing, according to your present 
idea, yet you did not say so in sleep. You continued to exist all the same. 
Mere ignorance does not rule out the fact of your existence.
Q: In the practice of meditation are there any signs of the nature 
of subjective experience or otherwise, which will indicate the 
aspirant’s progress towards Self-Realisation
A: The degree of freedom from unwanted thoughts and the degree of 
concentration on a single thought are the measure to gauge the progress.
Q: Is it necessary to take to sanyasa  for Self-Realisation?
A: Sanyasa  is to renounce one’s individuality. This is not the same 
as tonsure and ochre robes. A man may be a grihi ; yet, if he does 
not think he is a grihi , he is a sanyasi . On the contrary a man may 411Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
wear ochre robes and wander about: yet if he thinks he is a sanyasi  
he is not that. To think of sanyasa  defeats its own purpose.
Sri Bhagavan remarked: People see the world. The perception implies 
the existence of a seer and the seen. The objects are alien to the 
seer. The seer is intimate, being the Self. They do not however 
turn their attention to finding out the obvious seer but run about 
analysing the seen. The more the mind expands, the farther it goes 
and renders Self-Realisation more difficult and complicated. The 
man must directly see the seer and realise the Self.
Q: So then, it amounts to synthesising phenomena and finding the 
one Reality behind.
A: Why do you still consider the phenomena? See who the seer is. 
Synthesis means engaging the mind in other pursuits. That is not 
the way to Realisation.
Q: I want to eliminate the non-self so that the Self may be realised. 
How shall I do it? What are the characteristics of the non-self?
A: There is one who says that the non-self must be eliminated. Who 
is he?
Q: I mean this man. When I travel from Calcutta to Madras I must 
know Madras so that I may not alight at an intermediate station out 
of ignorance. There are the sign boards and the timetable to guide 
me in my travel. But what is the guide in my search for the Self?
A: It is all right for the journey. You know how far away you are 
from Madras. Can you tell me how far away you are from the Self 
in order that you should seek it?
Q: I do not know.
A: Are you ever divorced from the Self? Is it possible to be divorced? 
Are not all these alien to you and the Self the most intimate? Where 
should you go to gain the Self?
Q: I am now away from the Self. I must retrace my steps in order 
to regain it.
A: How far away? Who says that he is apart? Can there be two selves?
Q: It is said that individuals are modifications of the Self, just as 
ornaments are of gold.412Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: When a man speaks in terms of ornaments ignoring their substance 
gold, he is told that they are gold. But here the man is consciousness 
and speaks of himself as its modification. Do you remain apart from 
Self that you speak of yourself as Its modification?
Q: Cannot gold be imagined to say that it has become an ornament?
A: Being insentient, it does not say so. But the individual is sentient 
and cannot function apart from consciousness. The Self is Pure 
Consciousness. Yet the man identifies himself with the body 
which is itself insentient and does not say "I am the body" of its 
own accord. Someone else says so. The unlimited Self does not. 
Who else is he that says so? A spurious ‘I’ arises between the Pure 
Consciousness and the insentient body and imagines itself limited 
to the body. Seek this and it will vanish as a phantom. That phantom 
is the ego, or the mind or the individuality.
All the sastras  are based on the rise of this phantom, whose 
elimination is their purpose. The present state is mere illusion. 
Disillusionment is the goal and nothing more.
Q: The mind is said to be a bundle of thoughts.
A: Because it functions on account of a single root the ‘I-thought’.
               
Manasantu kim margane krte naiva manasam marga arjavat .
It has no real existence as a separate entity.
Q: Are not thoughts projections from the mind?
A: In that case the mind is taken to be synonymous with the ‘I-
thought’ or the ego.
15th December, 1937
Talk 428.
Sri Bhagavan has selected 10 stanzas from the famous work of Sri 
Sankara - Sivananda Lahari  - describing devotion ( bhakti):
(1) What is bhakti?
Just as the ankola  fruit falling from the tree rejoins it or a piece of iron 
is drawn to magnet, so also thoughts, after rising up, lose themselves 413Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
in their original source. This is bhakti . The original source of thoughts 
is the feet of the Lord, Isvara . Love of His Feet forms bhakti. (61)
(2) Fruit of bhakti:
The thick cloud of bhakti , formed in the transcendental sky of the 
Lord’s Feet, pours down a rain of Bliss ( ananda ) and fills the lake 
of mind to overflowing. Only then the jiva, always transmigrating 
to no useful end, has his real purpose fulfilled. (76)
(3) Where to place bhakti?
Devotion to gods, who have themselves their origin and end, can 
result in fruits similarly with origin and end. In order to be in Bliss 
everlasting our devotion must be directed to its source, namely the 
Feet of the ever blissful Lord. (83)
(4) Bhakti is a matter only for experience and not for words:
How can Logic or other polemics be of real use? Can the ghatapatas 
(favourite examples of the logicians, meaning the pot and the cloth) 
save you in a crisis? Why then waste yourself thinking of them and 
on discussion? Stop exercising the vocal organs and giving them 
pain. Think of the Feet of the Lord and drink the nectar! (6)
(5) Immortality is the fruit of Devotion:
At the sight of him who in his heart has fixed the Lord’s Feet, Death 
is reminded of his bygone disastrous encounter with Markandeya 
and flees away.
All other gods worship only Siva, placing their crowned heads at 
His feet. Such involuntary worship is only natural to Siva.
Goddess Liberation, His consort, always remains part of Him. 
(65)
(6) If only Devotion be there - the conditions of the jiva cannot 
affect him.
However different the bodies, the mind alone is lost in the Lord’s 
Feet. Bliss overflows! (10)
(7) Devotion always unimpaired:
Wherever or however it be, only let the mind lose itself in the Supreme. 
It is Y oga! It is Bliss! Or the Y ogi or the Bliss incarnate! (12)414Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
(8) Karma Yoga also is Bhakti:
To worship God with flowers and other external objects is 
troublesome. Only lay the single flower, the heart, at the feet of 
Siva and remain at Peace. Not to know this simple thing and to 
wander about! How foolish! What misery! (9)
(9) This Karma Yoga  puts an end to one’s samsara:
Whatever the order of life ( asrama ) of the devotee, only once 
thought of, Siva relieves the devotee of his load of samsara  and 
takes it on Himself. (11)
(10) Devotion is Jnana:
The mind losing itself in Siva’s Feet is Devotion. Ignorance lost! 
Knowledge! Liberation! (91)
16th December, 1937
Talk 429.
A few ladies had come from Bangalore. One among them asked: 
The world is composed of differences, from our point of view. How 
shall we able to get over these differences and comprehend the One 
Essence of all things?
A: The differences are the result of the sense of doership ( kartritva). 
The fruits will be destroyed if the root is destroyed. So relinquish 
the sense of doership; the differences will vanish and the essential 
reality will reveal itself.
In order to give up the sense of doership one must seek to find out 
who the doer is. Enquire within; the sense of doership will vanish. 
Vichara  (enquiry) is the method.
22nd December, 1937
Talk 430.
A Marathi gentleman asked: I have read much about Self-Realisation; 
I do japa, puja, etc.; nothing seems to satisfy me. Can Sri Bhagavan 
kindly guide me?
A: What is that you seek to gain? Everyone seeks happiness. 
Happiness is one’s lot in everyday sleep. Bring about that state of 
happiness even in the waking state. That is all.415Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: I do not follow. How is it to be done?
A: Atma Vichara  is the way.
Q: It seems too difficult to adopt, being so intangible. What shall I 
do if I feel unfit for this method of enquiry?
A: Guidance is there. It is for individuals to avail themselves of it.
25th December, 1937
Talk 431.
A Telugu gentleman stood up and asked: The mind is said to be pure 
when all its vasanas  are wiped out. It is also the finality. When there 
is something to be gained is it not duality?
A: Let the mind be first made pure. If the same question arises 
thereafter the answer may then be sought.
26th December, 1937
Talk 432.
An Andhra visitor asked: What is sleep?
A: Why, you experience it every day.
Q: I want to know exactly what it is, so that it may be distinguished 
from samadhi .
A: How can you know sleep when you are awake? The answer is to 
go to sleep and find out what it is.
Q: But I cannot know it in this way.
A: This question must be raised in sleep.
Q: But I cannot raise the question then.
A: So, that is sleep.
Sri Bhagavan went out for a few minutes. On his return the same man asked: 
Self-realised jnanis  are seen to take food and do actions like others. Do 
they similarly experience the states of dream and of sleep?
A: Why do you seek to know the state of others, maybe jnanis? 
What do you gain by knowing about others? You must seek to 
know your own real nature.
Who do you think that you are? Evidently, the body.416Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: Yes.
A: Similarly, you take the Jnani  to be the visible body whereon 
the actions are superimposed by you. That makes you put these 
questions. The Jnani  himself does not ask if he has the dream or 
sleep state. He has no doubts himself. The doubts are in you. This 
must convince you of your wrong premises. The Jnani  is not the 
body. He is the Self of all.
The sleep, dream,  samadhi , etc., are all states of the ajnanis . 
The Self is free from all these. Here is the answer for the former 
question also.
Q: I sought to know the state of sthita prajnata  (unshaken 
knowledge).
A: The sastras  are not for the Jnani . He has no doubts to be cleared. 
The riddles are for ajnanis  only. The sastras  are for them alone.
Q: Sleep is the state of nescience and so it is said of samadhi  also.
A: Jnana  is beyond knowledge and nescience. There can be no 
question about that state. It is the Self.
Talk 433.
Mr. Thomas, Professor of Sanskrit, University of Oxford, had presided 
over the Oriental Conference in Trivandrum and on his way to Calcutta 
he visited Sri Bhagavan. He is an elderly gentleman with a broad forehead 
and a quiet manner. He speaks softly and slowly. He evinces great interest 
in oriental literature, especially Sanskrit. He had heard of the richness of 
Tamil. He desired to know which of the English translations of Srimad 
Bhagavad Gita  was the best. The hall was crowded and a few of them 
mentioned, with each his own opinion, Thibaut’s, Mahadeva Sastri’s, 
Telang’s, etc. Sri Bhagavan made mention of F. T. Brooks. Mr. Thomas 
desires one in metrical form because it is the proper vehicle for rasa (the 
essence) contained in it. Rasa  is also Peace, he said.
A: Yes, Brahman is only rasa.
Q: Rasa  is also Bliss.
A: Rasa, Ananda, Peace are all names for the same Bliss.
The Professor was shown Mr. Grant Duff’s speech in the Philosophical 
Conference held at Paris. Later the book ‘Dharma’ by Dr. G. H. Mees 417Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
was placed in his hands, on seeing which he asked what Sri Bhagavan 
thought of castes.
A: The castes relate to bodies and not to Self. The Self is Bliss. To 
realise Bliss one realises the Self. No need to worry oneself about 
caste, etc.
Q: The ahamkar  is also called the Self.
A: Ahamkar  is limited, whereas the Self is beyond it.
Q: There is much literature in English relating to Eastern philosophy 
and religion. There are different exponents. The system of 
Ramanuja is well presented. Prof. Radhakrishnan expounds 
the advaitic  system. He lays more stress on experience than on 
evidence. Sankara shows a highly developed mind.
A discussion followed on direct perception. The Professor spoke 
of mental perception also as different from sense perception.
A: To infer one’s existence no other evidence is necessary. The 
indriyas  (senses) and the mind arising from the ego cannot serve 
as evidence relating to the Self. The Self is their basis. They do not 
exist independently of the Self. One’s own existence is self-evident. 
Bliss is the Self. All become dear only owing to the love of Self.
Q: Love postulates duality. How can the Self be the object of love?
A: Love is not different from the Self. Love of an object is of an 
inferior order and cannot endure. Whereas the Self is Love, in other 
words, God is Love.
Q: It is also the Christian idea.
He also asked Sri Bhagavan which of the methods was the best for 
the attainment of the goal. Is not Patanjali’s the best?
A: Yogas chitta vritti nirodhah  - (Yoga is to check the mind from 
changing) - which is acceptable to all. That is also the goal of all. 
The method is chosen according to one’s own fitness. The goal for 
all is the same. Yet different names are given to the goal only to suit 
the process preliminary to reaching the goal. Bhakti, Yoga, Jnana  
are all the same. Svasvarupanusandhanam bhaktirity abhidheeyate  
(Self contemplation is called bhakti ).
Q: Does Sri Bhagavan advocate advaita ?418Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: Dvaita  and advaita  are relative terms. They are based on the sense 
of duality. The Self is as it is. There is neither dvaita  nor advaita . 
I AM THAT I AM. Simple Being is the Self.
Q: This is not mayavada .
A: The mind is maya . Reality lies beyond the mind. So long as the 
mind functions there is duality, maya , etc. Once it is transcended 
the Reality shines forth. Although it is said to shine forth Self-
effulgence is the Self.
Q: It is Sat-chit-ananda .
A: Sat-chit-ananda  is said to indicate that the Supreme is not asat 
(different from unreal), not achit  (different from insentient) and not 
an anananda  (different from unhappiness). Because we are in the 
phenomenal world we speak of the Self as Sacchidananda .
Q: Aham  ‘I’ applies to the individual and also to Brahman. It is rather 
unfortunate.
A: It is upadhi bheda  (owing to different limiting adjuncts). The 
bodily limitations pertain to the aham  (‘I’) of the jiva, whereas the 
universal limitations pertain to the aham  (‘I’) of Brahman. Take off 
the upadhi  (limiting adjunct); the ‘I’ ( Aham ) is pure and single.
Q: Does Bhagavan give diksha  (initiation)?
A: Mowna  (silence) is the best and the most potent diksha . That was 
practised by Sri Dakshinamurti. Touch, look, etc., are all of a lower 
order. Silence ( mowna diksha ) changes the hearts of all. There is 
no Guru and no disciple. 
The ajnani  confounds his body with the Self and so he takes the other’s 
body for the Guru. But does the Guru think his body to be the Self? 
He has transcended the body. There are no differences for Him. So the 
ajnani  cannot appreciate the standpoint of Guru and of sishya .
Q: Is there then no difference between the one and the other?
A: There are differences from the standpoint of the phenomenal 
world but not from that of Reality.
The Professor was thankful. He hoped to appreciate Sri Bhagavan’s 
writings better after having seen Him and conversed with Him.
In the course of conversation, Sri Bhagavan said that upasana  and 
dhyana  are possible so long as there is the mind and they must cease  419Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
with the cessation of the mind. They are mere preliminaries to final 
eradication of thoughts and the stillness of mind.
Q: Saiva Siddhanta  postulates three fundamentals as being eternal. 
Is it opposed to Vedanta ?
A: The three entities are jiva, God and bondage. Such trinities are 
common in all religions. They are true so long as the mind is 
operative. They are mere creations of the mind. One can postulate 
God only after the mind arises. God is not different from the Self. 
The Self is objectified as God. So also with Guru.
The Professor returned in the evening and asked something about 
good actions. He further wondered why Brahman is said to be  
sacchidananda , but not God.
A: Sat denotes being beyond sat and asat; Chit beyond chit and 
achit ; Ananda beyond bliss and non-bliss.
What is it then? Even if not  sat nor asat, It must be admitted to be 
sat only. Compare the term jnana . It is the state beyond knowledge 
and ignorance. Yet jnana  is not ignorance but knowledge. So also 
with Sat-chit-ananda .
Q: It favours the one aspect.
After a word about Atma-vichara  he took leave saying that he would 
not trouble Sri Maharshi any further although he had several doubts 
yet to be cleared and that he wanted to make nididhyasana  of what 
he had heard so far.
A judge from Mysore asked:  Upasana  and dhyana  were said to be 
due to mental activities. Cessation of activities was also said to be 
Realisation. Now, how to realise without upasana  or dhyana ?
A: They are preliminaries. Such action will lead to the desired inaction.
Q: The Heart is said to be experienced on the right. Physiologically 
it is on the left.
A: Spiritual experience is spoken of.
Q: Is it the psychic heart?
A: Yes.
Q: How to know that it is on the right?
A: By experience.420Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: Is there any indication to that effect?
A: Point out to yourself and see.
28th December, 1937
Talk 434.
Being Christmas holidays, there is a great rush of visitors from far and near. 
A group of them sat down and two among them asked as follows:
Q: Do you know English?
Prompted to ask questions, he continued:
Q: Have you realised your Self?
Sri Bhagavan smiled and said, "Go on, continue."
Q: Have you experienced nirvikalpa samadhi?
He was asked to finish his questions.
Q: Can you enter into nirvikalpa samadhi  at will? Is it not necessary 
that sages should influence their surroundings?
Another man asked: Can Sri Bhagavan help us to realise the Truth?
A: Help is always there.
Q: Then there is no need to ask questions. I do not feel the ever-
present help.
A: Surrender and you will find it.
Q: I am always at your feet. Will Bhagavan give us some upadesha  to 
follow? Otherwise how can I get the help living 600 miles away?
A: That Sadguru  is within.
Q: Sadguru  is necessary to guide me to understand it.
A: The Sadguru  is within.
Q: I want a visible Guru.
A: That visible Guru says that He is within.
Q: Can I throw myself at the mercy of the Sadguru ?
A: Yes. Instructions are necessary only so long as one has not 
surrendered oneself.
Q: Is no particular time necessary for meditation?421Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: Meditation depends on strength of mind. It must be unceasing, even 
when one is engaged in work. Particular time is meant for novices.
Q: Will Sadguru  place His hand on my head to assure me of His help? 
I will have the consolation that His promise will be fulfilled.
A: A bond will be the next requisition and a suit will be filed if you 
imagine no help forthcoming. (Laughter).
Q: May I come near, Sir? (for blessing).
A: Such doubts should not arise in you. They contradict your 
statement of surrender. Sadguru  is always on your head.
Q: Surrender comes after effort.
A: Yes, it becomes complete in due course.
Q: Is a teacher necessary for instructions?
A: Y es, if you want to learn anything new. But here you have to unlearn.
Q: Yet a teacher is necessary.
A: You have already got what you seek elsewhere. So no teacher is 
necessary. 
Q: Is there any use of the man of Realisation for the seeker?
A: Yes. He helps you to get rid of your delusion that you are not 
realised.
Q: So, tell me how.
A: The paths are meant only to de-hypnotise the individual.
Q: De-hypnotise me. Tell me what method to follow.
A: Where are you now? Where should you go? 
Q: I know ‘I am’; but I do not know what I am. 
A: Are there two ‘I’s then? 
Q: It is begging the question. 
A: Who says this? Is it the one who is, or is it the other who does 
not know what he is? 
Q: I am, but do not know what or how? 
A: ‘I’ is always there.
Q: Does the ‘I’ undergo any transformation, say in death?
A: Who witnesses the transformation?422Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: You seem to speak Jnana yoga . This is Jnana yoga .
A: Yes, it is.
Q: But surrender is bhakti yoga .
A: Both are the same
After some time the man continued:  Then I have to conclude that I am 
Consciousness and that nothing occurs except by my presence.
A: It is one thing to conclude it by reasoning and another thing to 
be convinced.
The other man continued:  I shall wait three months and see if help is 
forthcoming. Now, may I have the assurance?
A: Is this what is asked by one who has surrendered?
Four visitors retired. The same man continued to say "Fulfil your 
promise." (Laughter).
He also said:  God has given me enough for bread and butter and I am 
happy. In addition I want peace of mind. Hence this request.
29th December, 1937
Talk 435.
Two ladies and two gentlemen from Ceylon.
Q: Have you realised God? If so, in what shape?
A: Who remains there to see God? The question might well be if 
one has known oneself.
Q: I have known myself.
A: Is the ‘I’ different from the Self that you say you have known 
the Self?
Q: I know the Self as identical with the body. If the Self be different 
from the body let Bhagavan tell me how to see the Self separate 
from the body. He has realised God. He can teach me.
A: Why should the Self be separated from the body? Let the body 
remain as it is.
Q: The soul when disembodied can see through all bodies.
A: Are there others then? Or is there even your own body? Consider 
your sleep - You do not know your body then. But still you are there 423Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
all the same. Did you then perceive the world through this or other 
bodies? Nevertheless, you cannot deny your existence then. There must 
be a subject to see the world and the subject must also be limited. If 
unlimited how can there be others beside the unlimited Self?
Q: Does God have any limits?
A: Leave God alone. What limits were there for your Self in your sleep?
Q: Death must then be the highest state.
A: Yes. We are now living in Death. Those who have limited 
the unlimited Self have committed suicide by putting on such 
limitations.
Q: Concentrate on the Self, you say. How to do it?
A: If that is solved everything else is solved.
Q: Know thyself, you say. How to know the Self? 
A: You now know that you are the body.
Q: Raja yoga  realises through the body, senses, etc., and Sri Bhagavan 
advises realisation by thinking. This is jnana yoga .
A: How can you think without the body?
Q: God does not think.
A: Why then did you start asking, "In what shape did you see God?"
Q: God must be felt through the senses.
A: Are you not feeling God?
Q: Is everybody feeling God always?
A: Yes.
Q: Then what is realisation?
A: Realisation is to get rid of the delusion that you have not realised.
Q: I don’t catch the point.
They left, having taken a snapshot.
Talk 436.
Q: What is visvarupa ?
A: It is to see the world as the Self of God. In the Bhagavad Gita  God 
is said to be various things and beings, and also the whole universe. 
How to realise it or see it so? Can one see one’s Self? Though not 
seen, can the Self be denied? What is the Truth?424Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: Is it then wrong to say that some have seen it?
A: It is true in the same degree as you are. The Gita begins saying 
that no one was born; in the fourth chapter it says, "the numerous 
incarnations, yours and mine, have taken place; I know them but 
you do not." Of these two statements, which is the truth? The 
instruction is according to the listener’s understanding. If the 
second chapter contains the whole Truth, why should so many 
more chapters follow it?
In the Bible God says "I AM before Abraham." He does not say 
"I was" but "I AM."
Talk 437.
A: People have read of Vivekananda having asked Sri Ramakrishna, 
"Have you seen God?" and imitate him now. They also ask, "Have 
you realised God?"
I ask what is realisation.
Realisation implies perfection. When you are limited, your 
perception also is limited. Your knowledge is thus imperfect. Of  
what value is that imperfect knowledge?
In Visvarupa Darsan , Arjuna is told to see whatever he desired 
and not what was presented before him. How can that darsan  be 
real?
30th December, 1937
Talk 438.
A visitor asked:  For beginners like me which is most suited: either 
worship of qualified God or contemplation of "I am Brahman"?
A: The answer is contained in the question. The question itself shows 
it to be worship of qualified God.
Q: "I" is felt in the waking and dream states but not in deep sleep. 
Why so?
A: If so, does it not exist in deep sleep?
Q: Because there are mental modes in these two states and no such 
mode in the other.425Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Volume III
3rd January, 1938
Talk 439. 
Q: Rama asks: "Brahman being Pure, how can maya  arise from Him 
and veil Him also? "Vasishta replies: "In pure mind associated with 
strong dispassion this question will not arise." Of course in advaita  
(non-dualistic) philosophy there can be no place for jiva, Isvara  
and maya . Oneself sinking into the Self, the vasanas  (tendencies) 
will entirely disappear, leaving no room for such a question.
A: The answers will be according to the capacity of the seeker. It is 
said in the second chapter of Gita that no one is born or dies: but 
in the fourth chapter Sri Krishna says that numerous incarnations 
of His and of Arjuna had taken place, all known to Him but not to 
Arjuna. Which of these statements is true? Both statements are true, 
but from different standpoints. Now a question is raised: How can 
jiva rise up from the Self? I must answer. Only know Your Real 
Being, then you will not raise this question.
Why should a man consider himself separate? How was he before 
being born or how will he be after death? Why waste time in such 
discussions? What was your form in deep sleep? Why do you 
consider yourself as an individual?
Q: My form remains subtle in deep sleep.
A: As is the effect so is the cause. As is the tree so is its seed. The 
whole tree is contained in the seed which later manifests as the 
tree. The expanded tree must have a substratum which we call 
maya . As a matter of truth there is neither seed nor tree. There is 
only Being.
Q: Vasanakshaya  (total end of all predispositions) - Mano nasa  
(annihilation of mind) - Atma-sakshatkara  (Realisation of the 
Self). They seem to be interdependent.426Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: The different expressions have only one meaning. They differ 
according to the individual’s stage of progress. Dispassion, 
Realisation, all mean the same thing; also they say ‘practice and 
dispassion’. Why practice? Because the modes of mind once 
subside and then rise up; again subside and rise up, and so on.
Q: Beginningless predisposition makes one do wrong. Without 
jnana  this predisposition cannot vanish. But jnana  looks almost 
impossible. Expiation alone cannot undo all the karma; for how 
much expiation will be needed! Look where we will! Everything 
looks difficult, even impossible. Association with the wise seems 
to be the only cure of all ills.
A: What is to be done? Reality is One only. How can It be realised? 
Realisation is thus an illusion. Practice seems to be necessary. Who 
is to practise? Looking for the doer, the act and the accessories 
disappear.
Moreover, if Realisation is not present here and now, how can It, 
newly got, be of any use? What is permanent must be eternally 
present. Can it be newly got and be permanent also?
Realise what is present here and now. The sages did so before and 
still do that only. Hence they say that it looks as if newly got. Once 
veiled by ignorance and later revealed, Reality looks as if newly 
realised. But it is not new.
Q: Karma, bhakti, yoga  and jnana  and their subdivisions only confuse 
the mind. To follow the elders’ words seems to be the only right 
thing to do. What should I hold? Please tell me. I cannot sift the 
srutis  and smritis; they are too vast. So please advise me.
(No answer.)
Talk 440. 
Q: Without logic, without learned terminology, please instruct me 
the way to the Bliss of Self. Let it be of Guru’s grace only.
A: Have a clear idea of your requirement. Who seeks to gain what? 
Then ask the method.
Q: Bliss manifests occasionally but I am unable to describe it. At 
times there is illumination, but is it the Reality? If so, how to make 427Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
it permanent? The method must be simple. Please make it clear 
without logic, learned discussions or mystifying words.
(No answer.)
Another visitor asked:  Please tell me which is the most efficacious of 
all the methods, e.g., prayer to God, Guru anugraha , i.e., master’s 
grace, concentration of mind, etc.
A: The one is the consequence of the other. Each of them leads to 
the next stage. They form a continuous whole. God, Guru, and the 
Self are not different. They are one and the same. Therefore the 
methods offer no choice.
Talk 441. 
Mr. Pannalal, I. C. S., a high Government official from Allahabad, 
with his wife, a highly cultured lady, and Mr. Brijnarayan, a retired 
judge, were on a visit for a week. The night previous to their departure 
they wanted to have their doubt cleared. Their doubt was:
We had a great sage for our Guru. He advised us to "take the 
name of Hari," saying that it is all in all; no effort is necessary for 
concentrating the mind. Concentration will come of itself if Harinam 
is persisted in. So we are doing it. The Guru passed away. We felt 
like a rudderless ship in mid-ocean. In our anxiety to find a safe 
guide we read and heard of you and so desired to come here. Our 
desire has been fulfilled after two years’ longing. On coming here 
and hearing Sri Bhagavan we understand that the Master teaches 
Atma-vichara  (self-quest). This is the method of knowledge ( jnana 
marga ), whereas the other master taught us bhakti marga  (method 
of devotion). 
What shall we do now? Are we to give up the other method and 
take to this new method? If once we change shall we not change 
many times more according to the masters we meet? What progress 
can be made by such frequent changes? Pray remove this doubt 
and bless us.
The Master referred the gentleman to an article in the September 
number of Vision , a monthly journal issued by the Anandasram. 
Kanhangad.428Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
PHILOSOPHY OF THE DIVINE NAME 
ACCORDING TO ST. NAMDEV
The name permeates the entire universe densely; who can tell to what 
depths in the nether regions and to what height in the heaven It extends?
The ignorant fools undergo the eighty-four lakhs of species of births, 
not knowing the essence of things. The Name is immortal. Forms are 
innumerable but Name is all that. The Name itself is form and form 
itself is Name. There is no distinction between Name and form. God 
became manifest and assumed Name and form. Hence the Name the 
Vedas have established. Beware, there is no mantram beyond the 
Name. Those who say otherwise are ignorant fools. Name is Keshava 
Himself. This is known only to the loving devotees of the Lord.
The all-pervading nature of the Name can only be understood when 
one recognises his own ‘I’. When one’s own name is not recognised, 
it is impossible to get all-pervading Name. When one knows oneself 
then one finds the Name everywhere.
None can realise the Name by the practice of knowledge, meditation or 
austerity. Surrender yourself at first at the feet of the Guru and learn to 
know who the ‘I’ in you is. After finding the source of that ‘I’, merge 
your individuality in that Oneness - which is Self-existent and devoid 
of all duality. It is that Name that permeates the three worlds.
The Name is Paramatman  Itself where there is no action arising out 
of dvaita  (duality).
8th January, 1938
Talk 442. 
While explaining a stanza of his own Sri Bhagavan observed:  The sun 
illumines the universe, whereas the Sun of Arunachala is so dazzling 
that the universe is obscured and an unbroken brilliance remains. But 
it is not realised in the present state and can be realised only if the 
lotus of the heart blossoms. The ordinary lotus blossoms in the light 
of the visible sun, whereas the subtle Heart blossoms only before the 
Sun of Suns. May Arunachala make my heart blossom so that His 
unbroken brilliance may shine all alone!
Further on, Sri Bhagavan continued: The mirror reflects objects; yet 
they are not real because they cannot remain apart from the mirror.  429Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Similarly, the world is said to be a reflection in the mind as it does not 
remain in the absence of mind. The question arises: if the universe is 
a reflection, there must be a real object known as the universe in order 
that it might be reflected in the mind. This amounts to an admission of 
the existence of an objective universe. Truly speaking, it is not so. 
Therefore the dream illustration is set forth. The dream world has no 
objective existence. How then is it created? Some mental impressions 
should be admitted. They are called vasanas . How were the vasanas  
in the mind? The answer is: they were subtle. Just as a whole tree is 
contained potentially in a seed, so the world is in the mind.
Then it is asked: A seed is the product of the tree which must have existed 
once in order that it may be reproduced. So the world also must have 
been there some time. The answer is, No! There must have been several 
incarnations to gather the impressions which are re-manifested in the 
present form. I must have existed before as I do now. The straight way to 
find an answer will be to see if the world is there. Admitting the existence 
of the world I must admit a seer who is no other than myself. Let me find 
myself so that I may know the relation between the world and the seer. 
When I seek the Self and abide as the Self there is no world to be seen. 
What is the Reality then? The seer only and certainly not the world.
Such being the truth the man continues to argue on the basis of the reality 
of the world. Whoever asked him to accept a brief for the world?
Yoga Vasishta  clearly defines Liberation as the abandonment of the 
false and remaining as Being.
Talk 443. 
A visitor asked:  The illustration of the mirror relates to the sense of 
sight only. The world is perceived by the other senses also. Can the 
unreality be established in relation to the other senses as well?
A: A figure on the screen in the cinema show appears to watch the 
whole world. What is the reality behind the subject and the object 
in the same show? An illusory being watches an illusory world.
Q: But I am the witness of the show.
A: Certainly you are. You and the world are as real as the cinema 
figure and the cinema world.430Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 444. 
An advocate visitor:  The mind becomes aware of the world through 
the senses. When the senses are active, one cannot help feeling 
the existence of the world. How can karma yoga be of any use for 
pure awareness?
A: The world is perceived by the mind through the senses. It is of the 
mind. The seer sees the mind and the senses as within the Self and 
not apart from it. The agent, remaining unaffected by the actions, 
gets more purified until he realises the Self.
9th January, 1938
Talk 445. 
Explaining a stanza in Aksharamanamalai  Sri Bhagavan said that 
mowna  is the highest form of upadesa . It signifies ‘silence’ as 
master, disciple and practiser. Three sanyasins , who were visiting 
Sri Bhagavan, began a discussion.
Q: If one remained quiet how is action to go on? Where is the place 
for karma yoga?
A: Let us first understand what Karma is, whose Karma it is and who 
is the doer. Analysing them and enquiring into their truth, one is 
perforce obliged to remain as the Self in peace. Nevertheless the 
actions will go on.
Q: How will the actions go on if I do not act?
A: Who asks this question? Is it the Self or another? Is the Self 
concerned with actions?
Q: No, not the Self. It is another, different from the Self.
A: So it is plain that the Self is not concerned with actions and the 
question does not arise.
Q: I agree.
Another asked:  What is the state of the realised man? Is he not 
acting?
A: The question implies that the realised man is not the questioner. 
Why should you concern yourself with another? Your duty is to 
look to yourself and not ask of others.431Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: The scriptures hold him up as the ideal.
A: Certainly. He is the ideal. Y ou should realise the Self. Even if his state 
be now described, your understanding of it will be only according to 
your capacity. You admit that your capacity is limited. 
The scriptures say that the realised state admits of no limits. So 
then, the only way to understand his state is to realise the Self and 
experience the state. If the question arises afterwards the answer 
will be found.
Another visitor asked:  There is differentiation made between the 
sentient and the insentient ( chit and jada) in the opening verse of 
Upadesa Sara .
A: The Upadesa  is from the standpoint of the hearer. There is no 
truth in the insentient ( jada). One whole consciousness ( chit) 
prevails all alone.
24th January, 1938
Talk 446. 
Mr. Grant Duff was in the hall. Sri Bhagavan was mentioning some 
new publications and Maha Yoga  among others. He also remarked 
that Mr. G. D. having read Sat Darsana Bhashya  would be surprised 
at the different view of Maha Yoga . Both claim to represent Sri 
Bhagavan’s philosophy; but they differ so much that Maha Yoga  
actually condemns the other.
Someone cited the curious claim of Sat Darsana Bhashya  that 
individuality is retained even after the loss of ego. 
Sri Bhagavan remarked:
What is to be done? The Upanishads say: Brahmavid Brahmaiva 
bhavati  (Knower of Brahman becomes Brahman). There are more 
than one Brahmavid  at a time. "Are all of them the same? Are they not 
separate?" So ask some persons. They look to the bodies only. They 
do not look to the realisation. There is no difference in the realisation 
of the Brahmavid . That is the Truth. But when the question is raised 
from the standpoint of the body the reply is necessarily bound to be 
"Yes. They are different". This is the cause of the confusion. 432Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Mr. G. Duff:  The Buddhists deny the world; the Hindu philosophy 
admits its existence, but says that it is unreal. Am I right?
A: The difference of view is according to the difference in the angles 
of vision.
Q: They say that Sakti creates the world. Is the knowledge of unreality 
due to the unveiling of maya ?
A: All admit Sakti’s creation. What is the nature of the Creatrix? 
It can only be in conformity with the nature of the creation. The 
Creatrix is of the same nature as Her creation.
Q: Are there degrees of illusion?
A: Illusion is itself illusory. Illusion must be seen by one beyond 
it. Can such a seer be subject to illusion? Can he then speak of 
degrees of illusion?
There are scenes floating on the screen in a cinema show. Fire 
appears to burn buildings to ashes. Water seems to wreck vessels. 
But the screen on which the pictures are projected remains 
unscorched and dry. Why?
Because the pictures are unreal and the screen is real.
Again reflections pass through a mirror; but the mirror is not in any 
way affected by the quality or quantity of the reflections on it.
So the world is a phenomenon on the single Reality, which is not 
affected in any manner. Reality is only one.
The discussion about illusion is due to the difference in the angle 
of vision. Change your angle of vision to one of jnana  and then 
find the universe to be only Brahman. Being now in the world, you 
see the world as such. Get beyond it and this will disappear: the 
Reality alone will shine.
Talk 447. 
Sri Bhagavan said that a saint Namah Sivaya who was formerly living 
in Arunachala must have undergone considerable difficulties. For he 
has sung a song saying: "God proves the devotee by means of severe 
ordeals. A washerman beats the cloth on a slab, not to tear it, but only 
to remove the dirt."433Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
25th January. 1938
Talk 448. 
LITERAL TRANSLATION OF NAMDEV’S
"PHILOSOPHY OF THE DIVINE NAME."
I. The Name permeates densely the sky and the lowest regions and 
the entire universe. Who can tell to what depths in the nether regions 
and to what height in the heavens It extends? The ignorant undergo 
the eighty-four lakhs of species of births, not knowing the essence of 
things. Namdev says the Name is immortal. Forms are innumerable, 
but the Name is all that.
II. The Name itself is form; and form itself is Name. There is no 
distinction between Name and form. God became manifest and 
assumed Name and form. Hence the Name the Vedas have established. 
Beware, there is no mantra  beyond the Name. Those who say 
otherwise are ignorant. Namdev says the Name is Keshava Himself. 
This is known only to the loving devotees of the Lord.
III. The all-pervading nature of the Name can only be understood when 
one recognises his ‘I’. When one’s own name is not recognised, it is 
impossible to get the all-pervading Name. When one knows oneself, 
then one finds the Name everywhere. To see the Name as different from 
the Named creates illusion. Namdev says, "Ask the Saints."
IV . None can realise the Name by practice of knowledge, meditation 
or austerity. Surrender yourself first at the feet of the Guru and learn to 
know that ‘I’ myself is that Name. After finding the source of that ‘I’, 
merge your individuality in that one-ness, which is Self-existent and 
devoid of all duality. That which pervades beyond dwaita  and dwaitatita , 
that Name has come into the three worlds. The Name is Para Brahman  
itself, where there is no action arising out of duality.
When Sri Bhagavan had read this, a certain musician came into the hall and 
began to sing Tyagaraja Kirtanas  in Telugu. One of them says: "Find the 
source of the sound which is transcendental ( mooladhara sabda ) by 
diving deep like a pearl-diver diving for pearls." Then again another song 
was: "For a man who has controlled his mind where is the use of tapasya ? 
Give up ‘I-am-the-body’ idea and realise ‘I am not; Thou art all’."
This song was translated to Mr. G. D. who was then in the hall.434Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Mr. G. D. asked:  Is it necessary to control one’s breath? What becomes 
of the man who has not practised breath-control?
A: Breath-control is only an aid for diving deep. One may as well dive 
down by control of mind. On the mind being controlled, the breath 
becomes controlled automatically. One need not attempt breath-
control; mind-control is enough. Breath-control is recommended 
for the man who cannot control his mind straightaway.
Naham  - I am not this - corresponds to rechaka
Koham  - Who am I? (search for the I) - corresponds to puraka
Soham  - He am I; (The Self alone) - corresponds to kumbhaka .
So these are the functions of pranayama .
Again the three formulae are: 
Na - Aham  (Not - I). 
Ka - Aham  (Who - I). 
Sa - Aham  (He - I).
Delete the prefixes and hold on to the common factor in all of them. 
That is Aham -’I’, that is the gist of the whole matter.
Later on Sri Bhagavan referred to the songs and said: Tyagaraja says 
well. The mind should be controlled. The question arises "What 
is mind?" He himself answers in the next couplet, saying that it is 
the "I-am-the-body" idea. The next question is how the control is 
effected. He answers again, saying "By complete surrender. Realise 
that I am not and that all is He." The song is fine and compact. He 
also mentions the other method, namely, control of breath.
31st January, 1938
Talk 449. 
After Mr. G. D. had left, there was some reference to his visit to the Asramam. 
Sri Bhagavan remarked, "Some Sakti  draws people from all parts of the 
globe to this centre." A devotee aptly said, "That Sakti  is not different 
from Sri Bhagavan." Sri Bhagavan immediately remarked, "What Sakti  
drew me here originally? The same Sakti  draws all others as well."
Sri Bhagavan was, happily, in the mood to relate the following stories.435Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
I. There was king with a devoted queen. She was a devotee of Sri 
Rama and yearned that her husband should similarly be a devotee. 
One night she found that the king mumbled something in his sleep. 
She kept her ears close to his lips and heard the word ‘Rama’ repeated 
continually as in japa. She was delighted and the next day ordered the 
minister to hold a feast. The king having partaken of the feast asked 
his wife for an explanation. She related the whole occurrence and 
said that the feast was in gratitude to God for the fulfilment of her 
long cherished wish. The king was however annoyed that his devotion 
should have been found out. Some say that having thus betrayed God 
he considered himself unworthy of God and so committed suicide. It 
means that one should not openly display one’s piety. We may take 
it that the king told the queen not to make a fuss over his piety and 
they then lived happily together.
II. THONDARADIPODI ( Bhaktanghrirenu ) ALWAR: One who 
delights in the dust of the feet of devotees. A devotee (of this name) 
was keeping a plot of land in which he grew tulasi , the sacred basil, 
made garlands of it, and supplied the same to the God in the temple. 
He remained a bachelor and was respected for his life and conduct. 
One day two sisters, who lived by prostitution, walked near the garden 
and sat under a tree. One of them said, "How disgusting is my life that 
I soil my body and mind every day. This man’s life is most desirable." 
The other replied, "How do you know his mind? Maybe he is not 
as good as he appears to be. The bodily functions may be forcibly 
controlled and the mind may be revelling in riotous thoughts. One 
cannot control one’s vasanas  as easily as the physical frame."
The former said, "The actions are only the indices of the mind. His 
life shows his mind to be pure."
The other said, "Not necessarily. His mind has not been proved as yet."
The first challenged her to prove his mind. She accepted. The second 
desired to be left alone with only a shred of garment in which to clothe 
herself. The first sister returned home, leaving the other alone with 
flimsy clothing. As the latter continued to remain under the tree, she 
appeared penitent and humble. The saint noticed her and approached 
her after some time. He asked what had happened to her that she  436Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
looked so lowly. She pleaded penitence for her past life, desired to lead 
a purer and nobler life and finished with a prayer to him to accept her 
humble services in the garden or attendance on himself. He advised 
her to return home and lead a normal life. But she protested. So he 
detained her for watering the tulasi  plants. She accepted the function 
with delight and began to work in the garden.
One rainy night this woman was found standing under the eaves of 
the thatched shed in which the saint was. Her clothes were dripping 
and she was shivering with cold. The master asked why she was in 
such a pitiable state. She said that her place was exposed to the rains 
and so she sought shelter under the eaves and that she would retire as 
soon as the rain ceased. He asked her to move into the hut and later 
told her to change her wet clothes. She did not have dry cloth to put 
on. So he offered her one of his own clothes. She wore it, still later 
she begged permission to massage his feet. He consented. Eventually 
they embraced.
The next day she returned home, had good food and wore fine clothes. 
She still continued to work in the garden.
Sometimes she used to remain long in her home. Then this man 
began to visit her there until he finally lived with her. Nevertheless 
he did not neglect the garden nor the daily garlands for God. There 
was public scandal regarding his change of life. God then resolved to 
restore him to his old ways and so assumed the shape of the saintly 
devotee himself. He appeared to the dasi and secretly offered her a 
rich present, an anklet of God.
She was very pleased with it and hid it under her pillow. He then 
disappeared. All these were secretly observed by a maid servant in 
the house.
The ornament was found missing in the temple. The worshipper 
reported the loss to the proper authorities. They offered a tempting 
reward for anyone who would give the clue for the recovery of the lost 
property. The maid servant afforded the clue and claimed the reward. 
The police recovered the ornament and arrested the dasi who said 
that the devotee gave her the same. He was then roughly handled. A 
supernatural voice said. "I did it. Leave him alone."437Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
The king and all others were surprised. They fell prostrate at the man’s 
feet and set him free. He then led a better and nobler life.
III. KADUVELI SIDHAR was famed as a very austere hermit. He 
lived on the dry leaves fallen from trees. The king of the country heard 
of him, saw him and offered a reward for the one who would prove 
this man’s worth. A rich dasi agreed to do it. She began to live near 
the recluse and pretended to attend on him. She gently left pieces of 
pappadam  along with the dry leaves picked by him. When he had 
eaten them she began to leave other kinds of tasty food along with 
the dry leaves. Eventually he took good tasty dishes supplied by her. 
They became intimate and a child was born to them. She reported 
the matter to the king.
The king wanted to know if she could prove their mutual relationship 
to the general public. She agreed and suggested a plan of action. 
Accordingly the king announced a public dancing performance by 
that dasi and invited the people to it. They gathered there and she 
also appeared, but not before she had given a dose of physic to the 
child and left it in charge of the saint at home.
The dance was at its height here; the child was crying at home for 
the mother. The father took the babe in his arms and went to the 
dancing performance. She was dancing hilariously. He could not 
approach her with the child. She noticed the man and the babe. She 
contrived to kick her legs in the dance so as to unloose one of her 
anklets just as she approached the place where the saint was. She 
gently lifted her foot and he tied the anklet. The public shouted and 
laughed. But he remained unaffected. Yet to prove his worth, he 
sang a Tamil song meaning:
"For victory, let go my anger! I release my mind when it rushes 
away. If it is true that I sleep day and night quite aware of my Self, 
may this stone burst into twain and become the wide expanse!"
Immediately the stone (idol) burst with a loud noise The people were 
astounded.
Sri Bhagavan continued:
Thus he proved himself an unswerving Jnani . One should not be deceived 
by the external appearance of Jnani . Thus V edantachudamani  - V . 181.438Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Its meaning is as follows:
Although a jivanmukta  associated with body may, owing to his prarabdha , 
appear to lapse into ignorance or wisdom, yet he is only pure like the 
ether ( akasa ) which is always itself clear. whether covered by dense 
clouds or cleared of clouds by currents of air. He always revels in the 
Self alone, like a loving wife taking pleasure with her husband alone, 
though she attends on him with things obtained from others (by way of 
fortune, as determined by her prarabdha ). Though he remains silent like 
one devoid of learning, yet his supineness is due to the implicit duality of 
the vaikhari vak  (spoken words) of the V edas; his silence is the highest 
expression of the realised non-duality which is after all the true content 
of the V edas. Though he instructs his disciples, yet he does not pose as 
a teacher, in the full conviction that the teacher and disciple are mere 
conventions born of illusion ( maya ), and so he continues to utter words 
(like akasvani ); if on the other hand he mutters words incoherently like 
a lunatic, it is because his experience is inexpressible like the words of 
lovers in embrace. If his words are many and fluent like those of an orator, 
they represent the recollection of his experience, since he is the unmoving 
non-dual One without any desire awaiting fulfilment. Although he may 
appear grief-stricken like any other man in bereavement, yet he evinces 
just the right love of and pity for the senses which he earlier controlled 
before he realised that they were mere instruments and manifestations of 
the Supreme Being. When he seems keenly interested in the wonders of 
the world, he is only ridiculing the ignorance born of superimposition. If 
he appears indulging in sexual pleasures, he must be taken to enjoy the 
ever-inherent Bliss of the Self, which, divided Itself into the Individual 
Self and the Universal Self, delights in their reunion to regain Its original 
Nature. If he appears wrathful he means well to the offenders. All his 
actions should be taken to be only divine manifestations on the plane 
of humanity. There should not arise even the least doubt as to his being 
emancipated while yet alive. He lives only for the good of the world.
Sri Bhagavan now warned the hearers against the mistake of disparaging 
a Jnani  for his apparent conduct and again cited the story of Parikshit. 
He was a still-born child. The ladies cried and appealed to Sri Krishna 
to save the child. The sages round about wondered how Krishna was 
going to save the child from the effects of the arrows ( apandavastra ) 439Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
of Asvatthama. Krishna said, "If the child be touched by one eternally 
celibate ( nityabrahmachari ) the child would be brought to life." Even 
Suka dared not touch the child. Finding no one among the reputed saints 
bold enough to touch the child, Krishna went and touched it, saying, "If 
I am eternally celibate ( nityabrahmachari ) may the child be brought to 
life." The child began to breathe and later grew up to be Parikshit.
Just consider how Krishna surrounded by 16,000 gopis  is a 
brahmachari ! Such is the mystery of jivanmukti ! A jivanmukta  is 
one who does not see anything separate from the Self.
If however a man consciously attempts to display siddhis  he will 
receive only kicks.
3rd February, 1938
Talk 450. 
Miss Umadevi, a Polish lady convert to Hinduism, asked Sri Bhagavan: 
I once before told Sri Bhagavan how I had a vision of Siva at about the 
time of my conversion to Hinduism. A similar experience recurred to me 
at Courtallam. These visions are momentary. But they are blissful. I want 
to know how they might be made permanent and continuous. Without 
Siva there is no life in what I see around me. I am so happy to think of 
Him. Please tell me how His vision may be everlasting to me.
A: You speak of a vision of Siva. Vision is always of an object. That 
implies the existence of a subject. The value of the vision is the same 
as that of the seer. (That is to say, the nature of the vision is on the 
same plane as that of the seer.) Appearance implies disappearance 
also. Whatever appears must also disappear. A vision can never be 
eternal. But Siva is eternal
The pratyaksha  (vision) of Siva to the eye signifies the existence 
of the eyes to see; the buddhi  (intellect) lying behind the sight; the 
seer behind the buddhi  and the sight; and finally the Consciousness 
underlying the seer. This pratyaksha  (vision) is not as real as one 
imagines it to be, because it is not intimate and inherent; it is 
not first-hand. It is the result of several successive phases of 
Consciousness. Of these, Consciousness alone does not vary. It is 
eternal. It is Siva. It is the Self.440Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
The vision implies the seer. The seer cannot deny the existence 
of the Self. There is no moment when the Self as Consciousness 
does not exist; nor can the seer remain apart from Consciousness. 
This Consciousness is the eternal Being and the only Being. The 
seer cannot see himself. Does he deny his existence because he 
cannot see himself with the eyes as pratyaksha  (in vision)? No! 
So, pratyaksha  does not mean seeing, but BE-ing.
"To BE" is to realise - Hence I AM THAT I AM. I AM is Siva. 
Nothing else can be without Him. Everything has its being in Siva 
and because of Siva.
Therefore enquire "Who am I?" Sink deep within and abide as the 
Self. That is Siva as BE-ing. Do not expect to have visions of Him 
repeated. What is the difference between the objects you see and 
Siva? He is both the subject and the object. You cannot be without 
Siva. Siva is always realised here and now. If you think you have 
not realised Him it is wrong. This is the obstacle for realising Siva. 
Give up that thought also and realisation is there.
Q: Yes. But how shall I effect it as quickly as possible?
A: This is the obstacle for realisation. Can there be the individual 
without Siva? Even now He is you. There is no question of time. 
If there be a moment of non-realisation, the question of realisation 
can arise. But as it is you cannot be without Him. He is already 
realised, ever realised and never non-realised.
Surrender to Him and abide by His will whether he appears or 
vanishes; await His pleasure. If you ask Him to do as you please, it 
is not surrender but command to Him. You cannot have Him obey 
you and yet think that you have surrendered. He knows what is 
best and when and how to do it. Leave everything entirely to Him. 
His is the burden: you have no longer any cares. All your cares are 
His. Such is surrender. This is bhakti .
Or, enquire to whom these questions arise. Dive deep in the Heart and 
remain as the Self. One of these two ways is open to the aspirant.
Sri Bhagavan also added: There is no being who is not conscious and 
therefore who is not Siva. Not only is he Siva but also all else of which 
he is aware or not aware. Yet he thinks in sheer ignorance that he sees the 441Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
universe in diverse forms. But if he sees his Self he is not aware of his 
separateness from the universe; in fact his individuality and the other 
entities vanish although they persist in all their forms. Siva is seen as 
the universe. But the seer does not see the background itself. Think 
of the man who sees only the cloth and not the cotton of which it is 
made; or of the man who sees the pictures moving on the screen in a 
cinema show and not the screen itself as the background; or again the 
man who sees the letters which he reads but not the paper on which 
they are written. The objects are thus Consciousness and forms. But 
the ordinary person sees the objects in the universe but not Siva in these 
forms. Siva is the Being assuming these forms and the Consciousness 
seeing them. That is to say, Siva is the background underlying both the 
subject and the object, and again Siva in Repose and Siva in Action, or 
Siva and Sakti, or the Lord and the Universe. Whatever it is said to be, 
it is only Consciousness whether in repose or in action. Who is there 
that is not conscious? So, who is not realised? How then can questions 
arise doubting realisation or desiring it? If ‘I’ am not pratyaksha  to 
me, I can then say that Siva is not pratyaksha .
These questions arise because you have limited the Self to the body, 
only then the ideas of within and without, of the subject and the object, 
arise. The objective visions have no intrinsic value. Even if they are 
everlasting they cannot satisfy the person. Uma has Siva always with 
Her. Both together form Ardhanariswara . Yet she wanted to know 
Siva in His true nature. She made tapas . In her dhyana  she saw 
a bright light. She thought: "This cannot be Siva for it is within 
the compass of my vision. I am greater than this light." So she 
resumed her tapas . Thoughts disappeared. Stillness prevailed. She 
then realised that BE-ing is Siva in His true nature.
Muruganar cited Appar’s stanza:- "To remove my darkness and 
give me light, Thy Grace must work through ME only."
Sri Bhagavan mentioned Manickavachagar’s:
"We do bhajana  and the rest. But we have not seen nor heard of 
those who had seen Thee." One cannot see God and yet retain 
individuality. The seer and the seen unite into one Being. There is 
no cogniser, nor cognition, nor the cognised. All merge into One 
Supreme Siva only!442Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
4th February, 1938
Talk 451. 
Mr. S. S. Suryanarayana Sastri, Reader in Philosophy, Madras 
University, arrived this night. He had a doubt which he said had 
been cleared on reading Sarma’s commentary on "Knowledge of 
Self". The doubt was:
How can the world be an imagination or a thought? Thought is a function 
of the mind. The mind is located in the brain. The brain is within the skull 
of a human being, who is only an infinitesimal part of the universe. How 
then can the universe be contained in the cells of the brain?
Sri Bhagavan answered saying: So long as the mind is considered to 
be an entity of the kind described, the doubt will persist. But what 
is mind? Let us consider. The world is seen when the man wakes 
up from sleep. It comes after the ‘I-thought’. The head rises up. So 
the mind has become active. What is the world? It is objects spread 
out in space. Who comprehends it? The mind. Is not the mind, 
which comprehends space, itself space ( akasa )? The space is physical 
ether ( bhootakasa ). The mind is mental ether ( manakasa ) which is 
contained in transcendental ether ( chidakasa ). The mind is thus the 
ether principle, akasa tattva . Being the principle of knowledge ( jnana 
sattva ), it is identified with ether ( akasa ) by metaphysics. Considering 
it to be ether ( akasa ), there will be no difficulty in reconciling the 
apparent contradiction in the question. Pure mind ( suddha manas ) is 
ether ( akasa ). The dynamic and dull ( rajas  and tamas ) aspects operate 
as gross objects, etc. Thus the whole universe is only mental.
Again, consider a man who dreams. He goes to sleep in a room with 
doors closed so that nothing can intrude on him while asleep. He 
closes his eyes when sleeping so that he does not see any object. Yet 
when he dreams he sees a whole region in which people live and move 
about with himself among them. Did this panorama get in through the 
doors? It was simply unfolded to him by his brain. Is it the sleeper’s 
brain or in the brain of the dream individual? It is in the sleeper’s 
brain. How does it hold this vast country in its tiny cells? This must 
explain the oft-repeated statement that the whole universe is a mere 
thought or a series of thoughts.443Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A Swami asked:  I feel toothache. Is it only a thought?
A: Yes.
Q: Why can I not think that there is no toothache and thus cure 
myself?
A: When engrossed in other thoughts one does not feel the toothache. 
When one sleeps toothache is not felt.
Q: But toothache remains all the same.
A: Such is the firm conviction of the reality of the world that it is 
not easily shaken off. The world does not become, for that reason, 
any more real than the individual himself.
Q: Now there is the Sino-Japanese war. If it is only in imagination, 
can or will Sri Bhagavan imagine the contrary and put an end to 
the war?
A: The Bhagavan of the questioner is as much a thought as the Sino-
Japanese war. (Laughter.)
7th February, 1938
Talk 452. 
Mr. Dhar, I. C. S., a high Officer and his wife, both young, highly 
cultured and intelligent, are on a visit here. But they fell ill since 
they arrived here. She desired to know how meditation could become 
steady.
A: What is meditation? It consists in expulsion of thoughts. All the 
present troubles are due to thoughts and are themselves thoughts. 
Give up thoughts. That is happiness and also meditation.
Q: How are thoughts given up?
A: The thoughts are for the thinker. Remain as the Self of the thinker 
and there is an end of thoughts.
Mr. Dhar asked Sri Bhagavan why Brahma, who is Perfection, creates 
and puts us to ordeals for regaining Him.
A: Where is the individual who asks this question? He is in the 
universe and included in the creation. How does he raise the 
question when he is bound in the creation? He must go beyond it 
and see if any question arises then.444Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
8th February, 1938
Talk 453. 
Three ladies are on a short visit here, Mrs. Hearst from New Zealand, 
Mrs. Craig and Mrs. Allison from London.
One asked:  What is the best way to work for world peace?
A: What is world? What is peace, and who is the worker? The world is 
not in your sleep and forms a projection of your mind in your jagrat. It 
is therefore an idea and nothing else. Peace is absence of disturbance. 
The disturbance is due to the arising of thoughts in the individual, 
who is only the ego rising up from Pure Consciousness.
To bring about peace means to be free from thoughts and to abide 
as Pure Consciousness. If one remains at peace oneself, there is 
only peace all about.
Q: If it is a question of doing something one considers wrong, and hereby 
saving someone else from a great wrong, should one do it or refrain?
A: What is right and wrong? There is no standard by which to 
judge something to be right and another to be wrong. Opinions 
differ according to the nature of the individual and according to 
the surroundings. They are again ideas and nothing more. Do not 
worry about them. But get rid of thoughts. If you always remain 
in the right, then right will prevail in the world.
Q: What should one think of when meditating?
A: What is meditation? It is expulsion of thoughts. You are perturbed 
by thoughts which rush one after another. Hold on to one thought 
so that others are expelled. Continuous practice gives the necessary 
strength of mind to engage in meditation.
Meditation differs according to the degree of advancement of the 
seeker. If one is fit for it one might directly hold the thinker; and 
the thinker will automatically sink into his source, namely Pure 
Consciousness.
If one cannot directly hold the thinker one must meditate on God; 
and in due course the same individual will have become sufficiently 
pure to hold the thinker and sink into absolute Being.445Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
One of the ladies was not satisfied with this answer and asked for 
further elucidation.
Sri Bhagavan then pointed out that to see wrong in another is 
one’s own wrong. The discrimination between right and wrong 
is the origin of the sin. One’s own sin is reflected outside and the 
individual in ignorance superimposes it on another. The best course 
for one is to reach the state in which such discrimination does not 
arise. Do you see wrong or right in your sleep? Did you not exist 
in sleep? Be asleep even in the wakeful state. Abide as the Self and 
remain uncontaminated by what goes on around.
Moreover, however much you might advise them, your hearers may 
not rectify themselves. Be in the right yourself and remain silent. 
Your silence will have more effect than your words or deeds. That 
is the development of will-power. Then the world becomes the 
Kingdom of Heaven, which is within you.
Q: If one is to withdraw oneself, why is there the world?
A: Where is the world and where does one go withdrawing oneself? 
Does one fly in an aeroplane beyond space? Is it withdrawal?
The fact is this: the world is only an idea. What do you say: Are 
you within the world or is the world within you?
Q: I am in the world. I am part of it.
A: That is the mistake. If the world were to exist apart from you, does 
it come and tell you that it exists? No, you see it exists. You see it 
when you are awake and not when asleep. If it exists apart from you, 
it must tell you so and you must be aware of it even in your sleep.
Q: I became aware of it in my jagrat .
A: Do you become aware of yourself and then of the world? Or do 
you become aware of the world and then of yourself? Or do you 
become aware of both simultaneously?
Q: I must say simultaneously.
A: Were you or were you not, before becoming aware of yourself? Do 
you admit your continued existence before and when you become 
aware of the world?
Q: Yes.446Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: If always existing yourself, why are you not aware of the world 
in sleep if it exists apart from the Self?
Q: I become aware of myself and of the world also.
A: So you become aware of yourself. Who becomes aware of whom? 
Are there two selves?
Q: No.
A: So you see that it is wrong to suppose that awareness has passing 
phases. The Self is always aware. When the Self identifies itself as 
the seer it sees objects. The creation of the subject and the object is 
the creation of the world. Subjects and objects are creations in Pure 
Consciousness. You see pictures moving on the screen in a cinema 
show. When you are intent on the pictures you are not aware of the 
screen. But the pictures cannot be seen without the screen behind. 
The world stands for the pictures and Consciousness stands for 
the screen. The Consciousness is pure. It is the same as the Self 
which is eternal and unchanging. Get rid of the subject and object 
and Pure Consciousness will alone remain.
Q: But why did Pure Brahman become Isvara  and manifest the 
universe if He did not mean it?
A: Did Brahman or Isvara  tell you so? You say that Brahman became 
Isvara , and so on. This too you did not say in your sleep. Only in 
your jagrat  state you speak of Brahman, Isvara  and universe. The 
jagrat  state is a duality of subject and object - owing to the rise of 
thoughts. So they are your thought creations.
Q: But the world exists in my sleep even though I am not aware.
A: What is the proof of its existence?
Q: Others are aware of it.
A: Do they say so to you when you are in sleep or do you become 
aware of others who see the world in your sleep?
Q: No, but God is always aware.
A: Leave God alone. Speak for yourself. You do not know God. He 
is only what you think of Him. Is he apart from you? He is that 
Pure Consciousness in which all ideas are formed. You are that 
Consciousness.447Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
10th February, 1938
Talk 454. 
Mrs. Dhar:  Sri Bhagavan advises practice of enquiry even when one 
is engaged in external activities. The finality of such enquiry is 
the realisation of the Self and consequently breath must stop. If 
breath should stop, how will work go on or, in other words, how 
will breath stop when one is working?
A: There is confusion between the means and the end ( i.e., sadhana  
and sadhya ). Who is the enquirer? The aspirant and not the siddha. 
Enquiry signifies that the enquirer considers himself separate from 
enquiry.
So long as this duality lasts the enquiry must be continued, i.e., 
until the individuality disappears and the Self is realised to be only 
the eternal Be-ing (including enquiry and enquirer).
The Truth is that Self is constant and unintermittent Awareness. The 
object of enquiry is to find the true nature of the Self as Awareness. 
Let one practise enquiry so long as separateness is perceived.
If once realisation arises there is no further need for enquiry. The 
question will also not arise. Can awareness ever think of questioning 
who is aware? Awareness remains pure and simple.
The enquirer is aware of his own individuality. Enquiry does not 
stand in the way of his individual awareness; nor does external work 
interfere with such awareness. If work, seemingly external, does 
not obstruct the individual awareness, will the work, realised to be 
not separate from the Self, obstruct the uninterrupted Awareness 
of the Self, which is One without a second and which is not an 
individual separate from work?
Talk 455. 
Mrs. Dhar:  I form part of the creation and so remain dependent. I 
cannot solve the riddle until I become independent. Yet I ask Sri 
Bhagavan, should He not answer the question for me?
A: Yes. It is Bhagavan that says, "Become independent and solve the 
riddle yourself. It is for you to do it." Again: where are you now that 
you ask this question? Are you in the world, or is the world within 448Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
you? You must admit that the world is not perceived in your sleep 
although you cannot deny your existence then. The world appears 
when you wake up. So where is it? Clearly the world is your thought. 
Thoughts are your projections. The ‘I’ is first created and then the 
world. The world is created by the ‘I’ which in its turn rises up from 
the Self. The riddle of the creation of the world is thus solved if you 
solve the creation of the ‘I’. So I say, find your Self.
Again, does the world come and ask you "Why do ‘I’ exist? How 
was ‘I’ created?" It is you who ask the question. The questioner 
must establish the relationship between the world and himself. He 
must admit that the world is his own imagination. Who imagines 
it? Let him again find the ‘I’ and then the Self.
Moreover, all the scientific and theological explanations do not 
harmonise. The diversities in such theories clearly show the 
uselessness of seeking such explanations. Such explanations are 
purely mental or intellectual and nothing more. Still, all of them 
are true according to the standpoint of the individual. There is no 
creation in the state of realisation. When one sees the world, one 
does not see oneself. When one sees the Self, the world is not seen. 
So see the Self and realise that there has been no creation.
The lady being laid up is unable to go to the hall and so feels 
unhappy that, though near, she cannot go into the hall. This was 
mentioned to Sri Bhagavan. He said, "Well, thinking like this keeps 
her always in the Presence. This is better than remaining in the hall 
and thinking of something else."
11th February, 1938
Talk 456. 
CONTACT WITH SAINTS
A DANGER :
"Seek the company of saints by all means; but do not remain indefinitely 
with them. The adage, familiarity breeds contempt, applies even to their 
case," writes Swami Ramdas in the course of an article in The Vision .
"Spiritual growth is, no doubt, largely dependent on suitable association. 
Company of saints is, therefore, held to be essential for a seeker after  449Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
truth. But it must not be understood by the company of saints to mean 
that the seeker should permanently stick on to them.
"He may, for a brief period, remain in their contact and, thereby 
drawing inspiration and guidance, get himself thoroughly awakened 
to the consciousness of the indwelling Reality. It would be well for 
him to depart from them before the light and inspiration that he has 
received diminishes or disappears.
MAY TURN SCOFFERS:
"There are many cases known to the writer and many others of which he 
has heard and read, in which such continued dwelling in the company of 
saints has not only cooled down the ardour and aspiration of the seekers 
but also turned them into scoffers and sceptics. The fall of a sadhak  
from faith, purity and aspiration does him incalculable harm.
"A young plant growing beneath the shade of a full-grown giant tree 
does not develop strength and stature. Its growth will be dwarfed, 
shrivelled and diseased. Whereas if the same plant were put into the 
open ground directly exposed to the storms, heat, cold, and other 
rigours of changing weather, it is bound to grow into a mighty tree 
drawing sustenance both from above and below.
STIFLED GROWTH:
"This analogy of the plant aptly illustrates the stunted life of a seeker 
who is attached merely to the outward personality of a saint and 
spends all his days in close association with him. Here the initiative 
for a free expression of his unique spiritual possibilities is stifled. 
He fails to cultivate the fundamental qualities for his advancement 
- fearlessness, self-dependence and endurance. The one great Guide 
that should control his mind, speech and body should be the almighty 
Spirit within him. To surrender to this Spirit and become its very 
embodiment is his goal. To stand on his own legs, struggle and grow 
by his own strength and experience and lastly to hand himself over to 
God by his own endeavour brings true liberation and peace.
"From what has been said above, it must not be construed that 
reflection is cast upon the greatness and efficacy of the company of 450Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
God-realised souls. Such a contact is the most effective means for a 
rapid spiritual evolution of the soul. In fact, the grace of saints is an 
invaluable aid for sadhana  and without it the condition of the aspirant 
is like a bird beating in vain its wings against the bars of the cage for 
freedom. Saints are the saviours and liberators. 
The Hindu conception of a saint is that he is the very embodiment of 
God himself. So honour him, derive the rare benefit of his society, 
serve him with a frank and pure heart, listen intently to his words of 
advice, and strive to act up to them and achieve the fullest knowledge 
of the Truth you are in quest of. 
But seek not to remain attached to his person and lose the spiritual 
gifts you obtained from him by first contacts."
This cutting was read out to Sri Bhagavan. He listened and remained 
silent. He was requested to say if contact with saints could be a danger. 
Sri Bhagavan then quoted a Tamil stanza which says that contact with 
Guru should be kept up till videhamukti  (being disembodied). 
Again he asked where is the Satpurusha ? He is within. Then he quoted 
another stanza meaning:
"O Master, Who has been within me in all my past incarnations 
and Who manifested as a human being, only to speak the language 
understood by me and lead me."
12th February, 1938
Talk 457. 
Mrs. Rosita Forbes was said to be in India. Sri Bhagavan said: The 
explorers seek happiness in finding curiosities, discovering new lands and 
undergoing risks in adventures. They are thrilling. But where is pleasure 
found? Only within. Pleasure is not to be sought in the external world.
13th February, 1938
Talk 458. 
Sri Bhagavan said that non-dual idea is advised, but not advaita  in 
action. How will one learn advaita , if one does not find a master and 
receive instructions? Is there not duality then? That is the meaning.451Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
14th February, 1938
Talk 459. 
Quoting Alexander Selkirk’s soliloquy, Sri Bhagavan said: The 
happiness of solitude is not found in retreats. It may be had even 
in busy centres. Happiness is not to be sought in solitude or in busy 
centres. It is in the Self.
17th February, 1938
Talk 460. 
Observing the moon before the rising sun, Sri Bhagavan remarked:
See the moon and also the cloud in the sky. There is no difference in their 
brilliance. The moon looks only like a speck of cloud. The jnani’ s  mind 
is like this moon before sunlight. It is there but not shining of itself.
18th February, 1938
Talk 461. 
As Sri Bhagavan was going through the letters which arrived this day, 
He read out one of them as follows:
A Brahmin boy working in a household went to sleep as usual. In his 
sleep he cried out. When he woke up he said that he felt his prana  
going out of the body through the mouth and nostrils. So he cried. 
Soon after he found himself dead and the soul taken to Vaikunta  
where God Vishnu was surrounded by other gods and devotees with 
prominent Vaishnavite marks on their foreheads. Vishnu said, "This 
man should be brought here at 2 o’clock tomorrow. Why has he been 
brought here now? "The boy then woke up and related his experience. 
The next day at 2 o’clock he passed away.
19th February, 1938
Talk 462. 
Mrs. Dhar had been anxious to ask some questions and get help from Sri 
Bhagavan. She approached Him with great hesitation and gently related her 
troubles: My attempts at concentration are frustrated by sudden palpitations 
of the heart and accompanying hard, short and quick breaths. Then my 
thoughts also rush out and the mind becomes uncontrollable. Under healthy 
conditions I am more successful and my breath comes to a standstill with deep  452Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
concentration. I had long been anxious to get the benefit of Sri Bhagavan’s 
proximity for the successful culmination of my meditation and so came 
here after considerable effort. I fell ill here. I could not meditate and so I felt 
depressed. I made a determined effort to concentrate my mind even though 
I was troubled by short and quick breaths. Though partly successful it does 
not satisfy me. The time for my leaving the place is drawing near. I feel more 
and more depressed as I contemplate leaving the place. Here I find people 
obtaining peace by meditation in the hall; whereas I am not blessed with such 
peace. This itself has a depressing effect on me.
A: This thought, ‘I am not able to concentrate,’ is itself an obstacle. 
Why should the thought arise?
Q: Can one remain without thoughts rising all the 24 hours of the 
day? Should I remain without meditation?
A: What is ‘hours’ again? It is a concept. Each question of yours is 
prompted by a thought.
Y our nature is Peace and Happiness. Thoughts are the obstacles to 
realisation. One’s meditation or concentration is meant to get rid of 
obstacles and not to gain the Self.  Does anyone remain apart from 
the Self? No! The true nature of the Self is declared to be Peace. If 
the same peace is not found, the non-finding is only a thought which 
is alien to the Self. One practises meditation only to get rid of these 
alien fancies. So, then, a thought must be quelled as soon as it rises. 
Whenever a thought arises, do not be carried away by it. Y ou become 
aware of the body when you forget the Self. But can you forget the 
Self? Being the Self how can you forget it? There must be two selves 
for one to forget the other. It is absurd. So the Self is not depressed; it 
is not imperfect: it is ever happy. The contrary feeling is a mere thought 
which has actually no stamina in it. Be rid of thoughts. Why should 
one attempt meditation? Being the Self one remains always realised, 
only be free from thoughts.
You think that your health does not permit your meditation. This 
depression must be traced to its origin. The origin is the wrong 
identification of the body with the Self. The disease is not of the 
Self. It is of the body. But the body does not come and tell you that 
it is possessed by the disease. It is you who say it. Why? Because 
you have wrongly identified yourself with the body.453Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
The body itself is a thought. Be as you really are. There is no reason 
to be depressed.
The lady was called away and she retired. The question was 
however pursued as follows:
Q: Sri Bhagavan’s answers do not permit us to put further questions, 
not because our minds are peaceful but we are unable to argue the 
point. Our discontent is not at an end. For the physical ailments 
to go the mental ailments should go. Both go when thoughts go. 
Thoughts do not go without effort. Effort is not possible with the 
present weakness of mind. The mind requires grace to gain strength. 
Grace must manifest only after surrender. So all questions, wittingly 
or unwittingly, amount to asking for Sri Bhagavan’s Grace.
A: Smiled and said, "Yes."
Q: Surrender is said to be bhakti . But Sri Bhagavan is known to favour 
enquiry for the Self. There is thus confusion in the hearer.
A: Surrender can take effect only when done with full knowledge. 
Such knowledge comes after enquiry. It ends in surrender.
Q: The knowledge of the Supreme Being is after transcending the 
individual self. This is jnana . Where is the need for surrender?
A: Quite so. There is no difference between jnana  and surrender. (Smile).
Q: How is the questioner satisfied then? The only alternative left is association 
with the wise or devotion to God ( satsanga  or Isvara bhakti ).
A: Smiled and said, "Yes."
21st February, 1938
Talk 463. 
In the course of the conversation Sri Bhagavan spoke appreciatingly 
of the services of Palanisami and Ayyasami - his former attendants.
He said that they raised in the garden two crude platforms which were 
occupied by Himself and Palanisami; they were most comfortable. They 
were made of straw and bamboo mats and were even more comfortable 
than the sofa here. Palanisami used to pass through the footpath between 
rows of prickly pear to bring begged food every night from Kizhnathoor. 
Though Sri Bhagavan protested Palanisami persisted in doing so. He was 454Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
free from greed or attachment of any kind. He had earned some money 
by service in the Straits Settlements and deposited his small savings with 
someone in the town from whom he used to draw in his emergencies. He 
was offered a comfortable living in his native village which he refused 
and continued to live with Sri Bhagavan till the end.
Ayyasami had worked under a European in South Africa and was 
clean, active and capable. He could manage even ten asramams at a 
time. He was also free from any attachment or greed. He was loyal to 
Palanisami, even fond of him. He was more capable than the other.
Annamalai first visited Maharshi in Virupaksha cave; he later went to 
Kovilur and studied some Tamil scriptures. He returned to Skandasramam. 
He died in January, 1922 in his 29th year. In the meantime he had 
composed 36 stanzas in Tamil full of significance and fervour.
Sri Bhagavan had them read out and briefly explained their meaning.
5th March, 1938
Talk 464. 
A passage from Arunachala Mahatmya  (the Glory of Arunachala) was 
read out. It related to Pangunni (a lame sage) who had his legs made whole 
by the grace of Sri Arunachala. Sri Bhagavan then related the story of a 
man whom Sri Maharshi had seen when He was in Gurumurtham. The 
man was one Kuppu Iyer. His legs were useless and he could not walk. 
He was once on his way to V ettavalam, moving on his buttocks. An old 
man suddenly appeared before him and said "Get up and walk. Why 
do you move on your buttocks?" Kuppu Iyer was excited and beside 
himself. Involuntarily he rose up and walked freely. After going a short 
distance, he looked behind to see the stranger who made him walk. But 
he could not find anyone. He narrated the incident to all those who were 
surprised to see him walk. Any old man in the town can bear witness to 
Kuppu Iyer regaining the use of his legs.
Again a girl from the Girl’s School was decoyed and was being robbed 
of her jewels. Suddenly an old man appeared on the scene, rescued 
the girl, escorted her to her home and then disappeared.
Often such mysterious happenings occur in Tiruvannamalai.455Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
6th March, 1938
Talk 465. 
Sri Bhagavan explained to a retired Judge of the High Court some 
points in the Upadesa Saram as follows:-
(1) Meditation should remain unbroken as a current. If unbroken 
it is called samadhi or Kundalini sakti .
(2) The mind may be latent and merge in the Self; it must necessarily 
rise up again; after it rises up one finds oneself only as ever before. 
For in this state the mental predispositions are present there in latent 
form to remanifest under favourable conditions.
(3) Again the mind activities can be completely destroyed. This differs 
from the former mind, for here the attachment is lost, never to reappear. 
Even though the man sees the world after he has been in the samadhi  
state, the world will be taken only at its worth, that is to say it is the 
phenomenon of the One Reality. The True Being can be realised only 
in samadhi ; what was then is also now. Otherwise it cannot be Reality 
or Ever-present Being. What was in samadhi  is here and now too. 
Hold it and it is your natural condition of Being. Samadhi  practice 
must lead to it. Otherwise how can nirvikalpa samadhi  be of any 
use in which a man remains as a log of wood? He must necessarily 
rise up from it sometime or other and face the world. But in sahaja 
samadhi  he remains unaffected by the world.
So many pictures pass over the cinema screen: fire burns away 
everything; water drenches all; but the screen remains unaffected. 
The scenes are only phenomena which pass away leaving the screen 
as it was. Similarly the world phenomena simply pass on before the 
Jnani , leaving him unaffected.
You may say that people find pain or pleasure in worldly phenomena. 
It is owing to superimposition. This must not happen. With this end 
in view practice is made.
Practice lies in one of the two courses: devotion or knowledge. 
Even these are not the goals. Samadhi  must be gained; it must be 
continuously practised until sahaja samadhi  results. Then there 
remains nothing more to do.456Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 466. 
Mr. Vaidyalingam, an employee of the National Bank: By meditation 
manifestation disappears and then ananda  results. It is short-lived. 
How is it made ever abiding?
A: By scorching the predispositions.
Q: Is not the Self the witness only ( sakshimatra )?
A: ‘Witness’ is applicable when there is an object to be seen. 
Then it is duality. The Truth lies beyond both. In the mantra, 
sakshi cheta kevalo nirgunascha , the word sakshi  must be 
understood as sannidhi  (presence), without which there could 
be nothing. See how the sun is necessary for daily activities. He 
does not however form part of the world actions; yet they cannot 
take place without the sun. He is the witness of the activities. 
So it is with the Self.
7th March, 1938
Talk 467. 
Yogi Ramiah:  All actions take place owing to Sakti . How far does 
Sakti  go? Can she effect anything without one’s own effort?
A: The answer to the question depends on what the Purusha  is 
understood to be. Is he the ego or the Self?
Q: Purusha  is svarupa .
A: But he cannot make any prayatna  (effort).
Q: Jiva is the one who makes the prayatna .
A: So long as egoity lasts prayatna is necessary. When egoity ceases 
to be, actions become spontaneous. The ego acts in the presence 
of the Self. He cannot exist without the Self.
The Self makes the universe what it is by His Sakti , and yet He does 
not Himself act. Sri Krishna says in the Bhagavad Gita , "I am not 
the doer and yet actions go on". It is clear from the Mahabharata  
that very wonderful actions were effected by Him. Yet He says that 
He is not the doer. It is like the sun and the world actions.
Q: He is without abhimana  (attachment) whereas the jiva is with 
abhimana .457Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: Yes. Being attached, he acts and also reaps the fruits. If the fruits 
are according to his desire he is happy; otherwise he is miserable. 
Happiness and misery are due to his attachment. If actions were to take 
place without attachment there would be no expectation of fruit.
Q: Can actions take place spontaneously without individual effort? 
Should we not cook our food in order to eat it later?
A: Atman  acts through the ego. All actions are due to efforts only. A 
sleeping child is fed by its mother. The child eats food without being 
wide awake and then denies having taken food in sleep. However the 
mother knows what happened. Similarly the Jnani  acts unawares. 
Others see him act, but he does not know it himself. Owing to fear 
of Him wind blows, etc. That is the order of things. He ordains 
everything and the universe acts accordingly, yet He does not 
know. Therefore He is called the great Doer. Every embodied being 
(ahankari ) is bound by niyama . Even Brahma cannot transgress it.
[This devotee later explained the significance of his question. He 
hears Sri Bhagavan say that the world goes on and the individual 
needs are met by Divine Will. But he finds that Sri Bhagavan wakes 
up the Asramites at about 4 a.m. to cut vegetables for the day’s 
curry. He wanted to have the doubt cleared for his own benefit and 
the question was not meant for discussion].
10th March, 1938
Talk 468. 
As Sri Bhagavan was going out, the following Vedic chant was heard 
from a hut:
Antaraditya manasa jvalantam  - Brahmana vindat . Sri Bhagavan 
drew our attention to it and remarked:-
In the Taittriya Upanishad  also, He is said to be made of gold, etc. 
What does it all mean? Although the sun and the other luminaries are 
said to be self luminous, yet they do not shine forth of themselves 
but they shine by the light of the Supreme Being. ( na tatra 
suryo....vibhati ). So long as they are said to be separate from Brahman 
their ‘Self-luminosity’ is the luminosity of Brahman. All these mantras  
mentioning the sun, etc., speak only of Brahman.458Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 469. 
Yogi Ramiah asked:  A master is approached by an aspirant for 
enlightenment. The master says that Brahman has no qualities, nor 
stain, nor movement, etc. Does he not then speak as an individual? 
How can the aspirant’s ignorance be wiped off unless the master speaks 
thus? Do the words of the master as an individual amount to Truth?
A: To whom should the master speak? Whom does he instruct? Does 
he see anyone different from the Self?
Q: But the disciple is asking the master for elucidation.
A: True, but does the master see him as different? The ignorance of the 
disciple lies in not knowing that all are Self-realised. Can anyone exist 
apart from the Self? The master simply points out that the ignorance 
lies there and therefore does not stand apart as an individual.
What is Realisation? Is it to see God with four hands, bearing 
conch, wheel, club, etc.? Even if God should appear in that form, 
how is the disciple’s ignorance wiped out? The truth must be eternal 
realisation. The direct perception is ever-present Experience. God 
Himself is known as directly perceived. It does not mean that He 
appears before the devotee as said above. Unless the Realisation 
be eternal it cannot serve any useful purpose. Can the appearance 
with four hands be eternal realisation? It is phenomenal and illusory. 
There must be a seer. The seer alone is real and eternal.
Let God appear as the light of a million suns: Is it pratyaksha ?
To see it, the eyes, the mind, etc. are necessary. It is indirect knowledge, 
whereas the seer is direct experience. The seer alone is pratyaksha . 
All other perceptions are only secondary knowledge. The present 
super-imposition of the body as ‘I’ is so deep-rooted, that the vision 
before the eyes is considered pratyaksha  but not the seer himself. 
No one wants realisation because there is no one who is not realised. 
Can anyone say that he is not already realised or that he is apart from 
the Self? No. Evidently all are realised. What makes him unhappy is 
the desire to exercise extraordinary powers. He knows that he cannot 
do so. Therefore he wants God to appear before him, confer all His 
powers on the devotee, and keep Himself in the background. In short, 
God should abdicate His powers in favour of the man.459Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: It is all right for mahatmas  like Sri Bhagavan to speak out so plainly. 
Because the Truth does not swerve from you, you consider it easy for 
all others. Nevertheless, the common folk have a real difficulty.
A: Then does anyone say that he is not the Self?
Q: I meant to say that no one else has the courage to put things 
straight like Maharshi.
A: Where is the courage in saying things as they are?
Talk 470. 
As a European Countess was leaving for Europe tonight she requested 
him to bless her and her family.
A: You do not go anywhere away from the Presence as you imagine. 
The Presence is everywhere. The body moves from place to place; 
yet it does not leave the one Presence. So no one can be out of sight 
of the Supreme Presence. Since you identify one body with Sri 
Bhagavan and another body with yourself, you find two separate 
entities and speak of going away from here. Wherever you may 
be, you cannot leave ME.
To illustrate it: The pictures move on the screen in a cinema show; 
but does the screen itself move? No. The Presence is the screen: 
you, I, and others are the pictures. The individuals may move but 
not the Self.
Talk 471. 
Q: The avatars  are said to be more glorious than the self-realised 
jnanis . Maya  does not affect them from birth; divine powers are 
manifest; new religions are started; and so on.
A:  (1) "Jnani tvatmaiva me matam ."
     (2) "Sarvam khalvidam brahma."
How is an avatar  different from a Jnani ; or how can there be an 
avatar  as distinct from the universe?
Q: The eye ( chakshu ) is said to be the repository ( ayatana ) of all 
forms; so the ear ( srotra ) is of all sounds, etc. The one Chaitanya  
operates as all; no miracles are possible without the aid of the 460Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
senses ( indriyas ). How can there be miracles at all? If they are said 
to surpass human understanding so are the creations in dreams. 
Where then is the miracle?
The distinction between Avataras  and Jnanis  is absurd. 
"Knower of Brahman becomes Brahman only" is otherwise 
contradicted.
A: Quite so.
15th March, 1938
Talk 472. 
A large group of Punjabis arrived here in a pilgrim special. They 
came to the Ramanasramam at about 8-45 a.m. and sat quiet for a 
long time. At about 9-20 one of them said: "Your reputation has 
spread in the Punjab. We have travelled a long distance to have your 
darsan . Kindly tell us something by way of instruction." There was 
no oral reply. Sri Bhagavan smiled and gazed on. After some time the 
visitor asked: "Which is the best - the yoga, the bhakti  or the jnana  
path?" Still Sri Bhagavan smiled and gazed as before. 
Sri Bhagavan left the hall for a few minutes. The visitors began to 
disperse. Still a sprinkling of them continued to sit in the hall. A long 
standing disciple told the visitor that Sri Bhagavan had replied to his 
questions by His Silence which was even more eloquent than words. 
After Sri Bhagavan returned, the visitor began to speak a little. In the 
course of his speech, he asked:
Q: It is all right for those who believe in God. Others ask - Is there 
a God?
A: Are you there?
Q: Quite so. That is the question. I see before my eyes a battalion of 
sepoys passing. Therefore I am. The world must have been created 
by God. How shall I see the Creator?
A: See yourself, who sees these, and the problem is solved.
Q: Is it to sit silent or to read sacred books or to concentrate the mind? 
Bhakti  helps concentration. People fall at the feet of the bhakta . If 
it does not happen he feels disappointed and his bhakti  fades.461Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: The longing for happiness never fades. That is bhakti .
Q: How shall I get it quicker? Suppose I concentrate two hours today. 
If I try to lengthen the period the next day, I fall asleep because I 
get tired of the job.
A: You do not get tired in sleep. The same person is now present 
here. Why should you be tired now? Because your mind is restless 
and wanders, it gets tired, and not you.
Q: I am a business man. How shall I get on with business and get 
peace of mind also?
A: This is also a thought. Give up this thought also and remain as 
your true Self.
Q: It is said: Do your duty without any expectation of results. How 
shall I get that frame of mind?
A: You need not aspire for or get any new state. Get rid of your 
present thoughts, that is all.
Q: How shall I get the bhakti  necessary for it?
A: It is bhakti  to get rid of thoughts which are only alien to you ( i.e. 
the Self).
Q: What is thought-force, mesmerism, etc.? There was a doctor in 
Paris called Dr. Coue. He was illiterate, but yet was able to cure 
many incurable diseases by will-force. He used to say: Generate 
power to cure yourself. The power is within you.
A: It is through the same will-power that the seat of all diseases, the 
body, has risen.
Q: So it is said thoughts manifest as objects.
A: This thought must be for mukti  (liberation).
Q: God must enable us to get rid of the other thoughts.
A: This is again a thought. Let that which has incarnated raise the 
question. You are not that because you are free from thoughts.
Another visitor from Rawalpindi asked: The Atman is formless. How 
shall I concentrate on it?
A: Leave alone the Atman which you say is formless or intangible. 
Mind is tangible to you. Hold the mind and it will do.462Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: Mind itself is very subtle and is also the same as the Atman. 
How shall we know the nature of the mind? You have said that all 
supports are useless. What should be our stand then?
A: Where does your mind stand?
Q: Where does it stand?
A: Ask the mind itself.
Q: I ask you now. Should we concentrate on mind then?
A: Um!
Q: But what is the nature of the mind? It is formless. The problem 
is perplexing.
A: Why are you perplexed?
Q: The sastras  want us to concentrate and I cannot do so.
A: Through what sastras  have we known our existence?
Q: It is a matter of experience. But I want to concentrate.
A: Be free from thoughts. Do not hold on to anything. They do not 
hold you. Be yourself.
Q: I do not yet understand as to where I take my stand and concentrate. 
Can I meditate on my mind?
A: Whose mind?
Q: My own mind?
A: Who are you? The question now resolves itself all right.
(All retired for lunch. The visitor returned at 2-30 p.m. and pursued 
the same question.)
He said:  Maharshi advises the seeker to get rid of thoughts. On what 
should I concentrate the mind after all the thoughts are expelled? I 
do not see where I stand then and on what I should concentrate.
A: For whom is the concentration?
Q: For the mind.
A: Then concentrate the mind.
Q: On what?
A: Answer the question yourself. What is the mind? Why should 
you concentrate?463Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: I do not know what the mind is. I ask Maharshi.
A: Maharshi does not seek to know the mind. The questioner must 
question the mind itself as to what it is.
Q: Maharshi advises that the mind should be divested of thoughts.
A: This is itself a thought.
Q: When all thoughts disappear what remains over?
A: Is the mind different from thoughts?
Q: No. The mind is made up of thoughts. My point is this: When all 
thoughts are got rid of, how shall I concentrate the mind?
A: Is not this also a thought?
Q: Yes, but I am advised to concentrate.
A: Why should you concentrate? Why should you not allow your 
thoughts free play?
Q: The sastras  say that the thoughts, thus playing free, lead us astray, 
that is, to unreal and changeful things.
A: So then, you want not to be led to unreal and changeful things. Your 
thoughts are unreal and changeful. You want to hold the Reality. That 
is exactly what I say. The thoughts are unreal. Get rid of them.
Q: I understand now. Yet there is a doubt. "Not a trice can you remain 
inactive." How shall I be able to rid myself of thoughts?
A: The same Gita says: "Although all actions take place, I am not the doer." 
It is like the sun towards the world activities. The Self always remains 
actionless, whereas thoughts arise and subside. The Self is Perfection; it 
is immutable; the mind is limited and changeful. Y ou need only to cast 
off your limitations. Y our perfection thus stands revealed.
Q: Grace is necessary for it.
A: Grace is ever present. All that is necessary is that you surrender to It.
Q: I surrender and pray that even if I go wrong I may be forcibly 
drawn to it.
A: Is this surrender? Surrender to be complete must be 
unquestioning.
Q: Yes, I surrender. You say I must dive into the ocean of the Self 
like a pearl-diver into the sea.464Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: Because you are now thinking that you are out of the ocean of 
Consciousness.
Q: I practise pranayama . It generates heat in the body. What should 
I do?
A: The heat will pass away when the mind gains calm
Q: That is true but most difficult.
A: This is again a thought which is an obstacle.
Talk 473. 
Someone remarked: It is said that they get mukti  unasked who live or 
die within a radius of 30 miles round Arunachala. It is also admitted 
that only by jnana  is liberation obtained. The purana  also remarks 
that Vedanta Vijnana  is difficult to get. So mukti  is difficult. But life or 
death round about the Hill bestows mukti  so easily. How can it be?
A: Siva says, "By My command." Those who live here need no initiation, 
diksha , etc., but get mukti .. Such is the command of Siva.
Q: The purana  also says that those who are born here are Siva’s group 
of followers, such as ghosts, spirits, disembodied beings, etc.
A: So it is said of other kshetras  as well, e.g., Tiruvarur, Chidambaram.
Q: How does mere life or death here confer mukti ? It is difficult to 
understand.
A: Darsanad Abhrasadasi jananat Kamalalaye, Kasyantu maranam 
muktih smaranad Arunachale.
"To see Chidambaram, to be born in Tiruvarur, to die in Benares, 
or merely to think of Arunachala, is to be assured of Liberation."
Jananat Kamalalaye  means "by being born in Kamalalaya ". What 
is it? It is the Heart.
Similarly, Abhrasadasi  - Seat of Consciousness. Again, Kasi is 
the Light of Realisation. Remembering Arunachala completes the 
verse. It must also be understood in the same sense.
Q: So bhakti  is necessary.
A: Everything depends on the outlook. One sees that all born in 
Tiruvarur, or visiting Chidambaram, or dying in Banares, or 
contemplating Arunachala, are muktas .465Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: I think of Arunachala, but still I am not a mukta .
A: Change of outlook is all that is necessary. See what such a change 
did for Arjuna. He had the vision, of the Cosmic Self. Sri Krishna 
says: "Gods and saints are eager to see my Cosmic Form. I have 
not fulfilled their desire. Yet I endow divine sight by which you can 
see that Form." Well, having said so, does He show what He is? 
No. He asks Arjuna to see in Him all that he desires to see. If that 
were His real form it must be changeless and known for what it is 
worth. Instead, Arjuna is commanded to see whatever he desires. 
So where is the Cosmic Form? It must be in Arjuna.
Furthermore, Arjuna finds Gods and saints in that form and they 
are praising the Lord. If the form be withheld from the Gods and 
saints as said by Krishna, who are they of Arjuna’s vision?
Q: They must be in his imagination.
A: They are there because of Arjuna’s outlook.
Q: Then the outlook must be changed by God’s Grace.
A: Yes. That happens to bhaktas .
Q: A man dreams of a tiger, takes fright and wakes up. The dream-
tiger appears to the dream ego who is also frightened. When he 
wakes up how is it that that ego disappears, and the man wakes up 
as the waking ego?
A: That establishes that the ego is the same. Dream, wakefulness 
and sleep are passing phases for the same ego.
Q: It is so difficult to spot the mind. The same difficulty is shared 
by all.
A: You can never find the mind through mind. Pass beyond it in order 
to find it non-existent.
Q: Then one must directly go to seek the ego. Is it so?
A: That’s it.
Mind, ego, intellect are all different names for one single inner 
organ ( antahkarana ). The mind is only the aggregate of thoughts. 
Thoughts cannot exist but for the ego. So all thoughts are pervaded 
by ego ( aham ). Seek wherefrom the ‘I’ rises and the other thoughts 
will disappear.466Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: What remains over cannot be ‘I’, but Pure Consciousness.
A: Quite so. You start seeking happiness. On analysis you find 
that misery is caused by thoughts. They are called the mind. 
While trying to control the mind you seek the ‘I’ and get fixed 
in Being-Knowledge-Bliss.
Another devotee:  What then is the mind?
A: Mind is consciousness which has put on limitations. You are 
originally unlimited and perfect. Later you take on limitations and 
become the mind.
Q: It is avarana  (veiling) then. How does this happen?
A: To whom is the avarana ? It is the same as avidya  (ignorance), 
ego or the mind.
Q: Avarana  means obscuration. Who is obscured? How does it arise?
A: The limitation is itself obscuration. No questions will arise if 
limitations are transcended.
16th March, 1938
Talk 474. 
There was some reference to the heart. Sri Bhagavan said: The yoga 
sastras  speak of 72,000 nadis , of 101 nadis , etc. A reconciliation is 
effected by others that 101 are the main nadis , which subdivide into 
72,000. These nadis  are supposed by some to spread out from the 
brain, by others from the Heart and by some others from the coccyx. 
They speak of a paranadi  which is said to rise up from the coccyx 
through the Sushumna  to the brain and descends to the heart. Others 
say that the Sushumna  ends in Para .
A few advise seeking realisation in the head ( Sahasrara ); a few between 
the eyebrows; a few in the heart; others in the solar plexus. If realisation 
amounts to gaining the Paranadi , one might enter it from the Heart. But 
the yogi is engaged in cleansing the nadis ; then Kundalini  is awakened 
which is said to rise up from the coccyx to the head. The yogi is later 
advised to come down to the Heart as the final step.
The Vedas say: "The Heart is like a lotus turned down, or a plantain 
bud." 467Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
"There is a bright spot atom-like, like the end of a grain of paddy."
"That spot is like a flame and in its centre, transcendental Brahman 
is seated." Which is that Heart? Is it the heart of the physiologists? 
If so, the physiologists know best.
The Heart of the Upanishads is construed as Hridayam , meaning: 
This (is) the centre. That is, it is where the mind rises and subsides. 
That is the seat of Realisation. When I say that it is the Self the people 
imagine that it is within the body. When I ask where the Self remains 
in one’s sleep they seem to think that it is within the body, but unaware 
of the body and its surroundings like a man confined in a dark room. 
To such people it is necessary to say that the seat of Realisation is 
somewhere within the body. The name of the centre is the Heart; but 
it is confounded with the heart organ.
When a man dreams, he creates himself ( i.e., the ahamkar , the seer) 
and the surroundings. All of them are later withdrawn into himself. 
The one became many, along with the seer. Similarly also, the one 
becomes many in the waking state. The objective world is really 
subjective. An astronomer discovers a new star at immeasurable 
distance and announces that its light takes thousands of light years to 
reach the earth. Well, where is the star in fact? Is it not in the observer? 
But people wonder how a huge globe, larger than the Sun, at such a 
distance can be contained in the brain-cells of a man. The space, the 
magnitudes and the paradox are all in the mind only. How do they 
exist there? Inasmuch as you become aware of them, you must admit 
a light which illumines them. These thoughts are absent in sleep but 
rise up on waking. So this light is transient, having an origin and an 
end. The consciousness of ‘I’ is permanent and continuous. So this 
cannot be the aforesaid light. It is different but has no independent 
existence. Therefore it must be abhasa  (reflected light). The light in 
the brain is thus reflected knowledge ( abhasa samvit ) or reflected 
being ( abhasa sat ). The true knowledge ( Samvit ) or Being ( Sat) is in 
the centre called Heart ( Hridaya ). When one wakes up from sleep it 
is reflected in the head, and so the head is no longer lying prone but 
rises up. From there the consciousness spreads all over the body and 
so the superimposed ‘I’ functions as the wakeful entity.468Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
The pure light in the brain is suddha manas  (the pure mind) which later 
becomes contaminated and is malina manas , the one ordinarily found.
All these are however contained in the Self. The body and its 
counterparts are in the Self. The Self is not confined in the body, as 
is commonly supposed.
16th March, 1938
Talk 475. 
Sri Maharshi read out a news item from a paper to the following effect: 
A forest guard armed with a rifle was going in the jungle and noticed two 
bright spots in a thicket. On closer approach to find out what they were, 
he was face to face with a huge tiger within a few yards of him. He threw 
down his gun and assumed a prayerful attitude towards the jungle king. 
The tiger stood up and slowly moved away without injuring him.
21st March, 1938
Talk 476. 
Dr. Stanley Jones, a Christian missionary, visited Maharshi. He writes 
books and delivers lectures. He has two Asramams under his control 
in North India. He was accompanied by another gentleman and two 
ladies. He is at present writing a book On the Indian Road  and wants to 
meet the spiritually great men in India so that he may collect material 
for the book. He desired to know how the Indian sages have proceeded 
and what they have found as their experience in divinity. So he asked 
questions. (This is only a short sketch of his interview).
Q: What is your quest? What is the goal? How far have you 
progressed?
A: The goal is the same for all. But tell me why you should be in search 
of a goal? Why are you not content with the present condition?
Q: Is there then no goal?
A: Not so. What makes you seek a goal? It is a counter-question to 
be answered by you.
Q: I have my own ideas of these subjects. I want to know what 
Maharshi has to say.469Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: Maharshi has no doubts to be cleared.
Q: Well, I consider the goal to be the realisation by the lower mind 
of the higher mind so that the Kingdom of Heaven might endure 
here on earth. The lower mind is incomplete and it must be made 
perfect by realisation of the higher mind.
A: So then you admit a lower mind which is incomplete and which seeks 
realisation of the higher so that it may become perfect. Is that lower 
mind apart from the higher mind? Is it independent of the other?
Q: The Kingdom of Heaven was brought down on Earth by Jesus 
Christ. I consider Him to be the Kingdom personified. I want 
everyone to realise the same. He said: "I am hungry with other 
men’s hunger;" and so on. Mutual partnership in pleasure and 
pain is the Kingdom of Heaven. If that Kingdom is universalised 
everyone will feel at one with the rest.
A: You speak of the differences between the lower and the higher 
minds, pleasures and pains. What becomes of these differences in 
your sleep?
Q: But I want to be wide awake.
A: Is this your wide awakened state? It is not. It is only a dream in 
your long sleep. All are in sleep, dreaming of the world and things 
and actions.
Q: This is all Vedantic, I have no use for it. The existing differences 
are not imaginary. They are positive. However, what is that real 
waking? Can Maharshi tell us what he has found it to be?
A: Real waking lies beyond the three states of waking, dream and 
sleep.
Q: I am really awake and know that I am not in sleep.
A: Real waking lies beyond the plane of differences.
Q: What is the state of the world then?
A: Does the world come and tell you "I exist"?
Q: No. But the people in the world tell me that the world needs 
spiritual, social and moral regeneration.
A: You see the world and the people in it. They are your thoughts. 
Can the world be apart from you?470Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: I enter into it with love.
A: Before entering thus do you stand aloof?
Q: I am identified with it and yet remaining apart. Now I came here 
to ask Maharshi and hear him. Why does he ask me questions?
A: Maharshi has replied. His reply amounts to this: Real waking 
does not involve differences.
Q: Can such realisation be universalised?
A: Where are differences there? There are no individuals in it.
Q: Have you reached the goal?
A: The goal cannot be anything apart from the Self nor can it be 
something to be gained afresh. If that were so, such goal cannot 
be abiding and permanent. What appears anew will also disappear. 
The goal must be eternal and within. Find it within yourself.
Q: I want to know your experience.
A: Maharshi does not seek enlightenment. The question is of no 
use to the questioner. Whether I have realised or not, how does it 
affect the questioner?
Q: Not so. Each one’s experience has a human value in it and can 
be shared by others.
A: The problem must be solved by the questioner himself. The 
question is best directed to oneself.
Q: I know the answer to the question.
A: Let us have it.
Q: I was shown the Kingdom of Heaven twenty years ago. It was 
by God’s grace only. I made no effort for it. I was happy. I want to 
universalise, moralise and socialise it. At the same time I want to 
know Maharshi’s experience of the Divine.
Mrs. Jinarajadasa intervened and spoke softly:  We all agree that 
Maharshi has brought the Kingdom of Heaven on Earth. Why do 
you press him to answer your questions relating to his realisation? 
It is for you to seek and gain it.
The questioner listened to her, argued slightly and resumed his questions 
to Maharshi. After one or two light questions, Major Chadwick spoke 
sternly: "The Kingdom of Heaven is within you," says the Bible .471Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: How shall I realise it?
Major Chadwick:  Why do you ask Maharshi to realise it for you?
Q: I do not.
Major Chadwick:  The Kingdom is within you. You should realise it.
Q: It is within  only for those who hear it.
Major Chadwick:  The Bible  says within you , and adds no qualifications.
The questioner felt his conversation was already too long and so 
retired after thanking Maharshi and others.
Talk 477. 
Mrs. Jinarajadasa:  How shall we be able to remember the truth 
experienced in dreams?
A: Your present waking state, your dreams and your desire to 
remember are all thoughts. They arise only after the mind has 
arisen. Were you not existing in the absence of the mind?
Q: Yes, I was.
A: The fact of your existence is also your realisation
Q: I understand it intellectually. The truth is felt in temporary flashes 
only. It is not abiding.
A: Such thoughts smother up the state of your eternal realisation.
Q: The rough and tumble of town life is not congenial to realisation. 
Jungle retreats afford the necessary quiet and solitude.
A: One can be free in a town and may yet be bound in jungle retreats. 
It is all in the mind.
Q: The mind again is maya , I suppose.
A: What is maya ? The knowledge that the mind is divorced from the 
Reality is maya . The mind is in Reality only and not apart. This 
knowledge is the elimination of maya .
Further conversation led to the question if the mind was identical with 
the brain. Sri Bhagavan said: The mind is only a force operating on the 
brain. You are now here and awake. The thoughts of the world and the 
surroundings are in the brain within the body. When you dream you create 
another self who sees the world of dream creation and the surroundings 
just as you do now. The dream visions are in the dream brain which is 
again in the dream body. That is different from your present body. You 472Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
remember the dream now. The brains are however different. Yet the 
visions appear in the mind. The mind therefore is not identical with the 
brain. Waking, dream and sleep are for the mind only.
Q: The understanding is intellectual.
A: Intellect. Whose intellect? The problem revolves round that 
question.
You admit that you exist even in the absence of intellect - say, in 
sleep. How do you know that you exist if you have not realised your 
existence? Your very existence is realisation. You cannot imagine a 
point of time when you do not exist. So there is no period of time 
when realisation is not.
22nd March, 1938
Talk 478. 
A certain man from Madurai asked: How to know the Power of God?
A: You say ‘I AM’. That is it. What else can say I AM?
One’s own being is His Power. The trouble arises only when one 
says, "I am this or that, such and such." Do not do it - Be yourself. 
That is all.
Q: How to experience Bliss?
A: To be free from thinking "I am now out of Bliss".
Q: That is to say free from modes of mind.
A: To be with only one mode of mind to the exclusion of others.
Q: But Bliss must be experienced.
A: Bliss consists in not forgetting your being. How can you be 
otherwise than what you really are? It is also to be the Seat of 
Love. Love is Bliss. Here the Seat is not different from Love.
Q: How shall I be all-pervading?
A: Give up the thought, "I am not all-pervading now."
Q: How to permeate the separate objects?
A: Do they exist independently of "I"? Do they say to you "We are"? Y ou 
see them. Y ou are, and then the objects are also seen. "Without me, these 
do not exist" - this knowledge is permeation. Owing to the idea "I am 473Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
the body; there is something in me" the separate objects are seen as if 
lying outside. Know that they are all within yourself. Is a piece of cloth 
independent of yarn? Can the objects remain without Me?
Talk 479. 
Q: Which is the best of all the religions? What is Sri Bhagavan’s 
method?
A: All religions and methods are one and the same.
Q: Different methods are taught for liberation.
A: Why should you be liberated? Why not remain as you are now?
Q: I want to get rid of pain. To be rid of it is said to be liberation.
A: That is what all religions teach.
Q: But what is the method?
A: To retrace your way back.
Q: Whence have I come?
A: That is just what you should know. Did these questions arise in your 
sleep? Did you not exist then? Are you not the same being now?
Q: Yes, I was in sleep; so also the mind; but the senses had merged, 
so I could not speak.
A: Are you jiva? Are you the mind? Did the mind announce itself 
to you in sleep?
Q: No. But elders say that the jiva is different from Isvara .
A: Leave Isvara  alone. Speak for yourself.
Q: What about myself? Who am I?
A: That is just it. Know it, when all will be known; if not, ask then.
Q: On waking I see the world and I am not changed from sleep.
A: But this is not known in sleep. Now or then, the same you remain. 
Who has changed now? Is your nature to be changing or remain 
unchanging?
Q: What is the proof?
A: Does one’s own being require a proof? Only remain aware of 
your own self, all else will be known.
Q: Why then do the dualists and non-dualists quarrel among 
themselves?
A: If each one minds his own business, there will be no quarrel.474Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 480. 
A European lady, Mrs. Gasque, gave a slip of paper on which was written:
We are thankful to Nature and the Infinite Intelligence for your 
Presence among us. We appreciate that your Wisdom is founded 
upon pure Truth and the basic principle of Life and Eternity. We are 
happy that you remind us to "Be still and Know THAT".
What do you consider the future of this Earth?
Answer:  The answer to this question is contained in the other sheet. 
Be still and know that I AM GOD.
"Stillness" here means "Being free from thoughts".
Q: This does not answer the question. The planet has a future - what 
is it to be?
A: Time and space are functions of thoughts. If thoughts do not arise 
there will be no future or the Earth.
Q: Time and space will remain even if we do not think of them.
A: Do they come and tell you that they are? Do you feel them in 
your sleep?
Q: I was not conscious in my sleep.
A: And yet you were existing in your sleep.
Q: I was not in my body. I had gone out somewhere and jumped in 
here just before waking up.
A: Your having been away in sleep and jumping in now are mere 
ideas. Where were you in sleep? You were only what you are, but 
with this difference that you were free from thoughts in sleep.
Q: Wars are going on in the world. If we do not think, do the wars cease?
A: Can you stop the wars? He who made the world will take care of it.
Q: God made the world and He is not responsible for the present condition 
of the world. It is we who are responsible for the present state.
A: Can you stop the wars or reform the world?
Q: No.
A: Then why do you worry yourself about what is not possible for 
you? Take care of yourself and the world will take care of itself.
Q: We are pacifists. We want to bring about Peace.475Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: Peace is always present. Get rid of the disturbances to Peace. 
This Peace is the Self.
The thoughts are the disturbances. When free from them, you are 
Infinite Intelligence, i.e., the Self. There is Perfection and Peace.
Q: The world must have a future.
A: Do you know what it is in the present? The world and all together 
are the same, now as well as in the future.
Q: The world was made by the operation of Intelligence on ether 
and atoms.
A: All of them are reduced to Isvara  and Sakti . You are not now apart 
from Them. They and you are one and the same Intelligence.
After a few minutes one lady asked:  "Do you ever intend to go to 
America?"
A: America is just where India is ( i.e., in the plane of thought).
Another (Spanish) lady: They say that there is a shrine in the 
Himalayas entering which one gets some strange vibrations which 
heal all diseases. Is it possible?
A: They speak of some shrine in Nepal and also in other parts of 
the Himalayas where the people are said to become unconscious 
on entering them.
Talk 481. 
Muruganar asked what prajnana  is.
A: Prajnana  (Absolute Knowledge) is that from which vijnana  
(relative knowledge) proceeds.
Q: In the state of vijnana  one becomes aware of the samvit  (cosmic 
intelligence). But is that suddha samvit  aware by itself without the 
aid of antahkaranas  (inner organs)?
A: It is so, even logically.
Q: Becoming aware of samvit  in jagrat  by vijnana , prajnana  is not 
found self-shining. If so, it must be found in sleep.
A: The awareness is at present through antahkaranas . Prajnana  is 
always shining even in sleep. If one is continuously aware in jagrat  
the awareness will continue in sleep also.476Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Moreover, it is illustrated thus: A king comes into the hall, sits there 
and then leaves the place.
He did not go into the kitchen. Can one in the kitchen for that reason 
say, "The king did not come here"? When awareness is found in 
jagrat  it must also be in sleep.
29th April, 1938
Talk 482. 
Dr. Pande of Indore is on a visit here. He asked leave of Bhagavan to 
ask questions so that his doubts might be cleared. He wanted to be 
shown a practical way to realise the Self.
A: A man was blindfolded and left in the woods. He then enquired 
of the way to Gandhara from each one he met on the way until 
he finally reached it. So also all the ways lead to Self-Realisation. 
They are aids to the common goal.
Q: Dhyana  will be easy if there is a pratikam  (symbol). But the 
enquiry into the Self does not show any pratikam .
A: You admit the existence of the Self. Do you point to the pratikam  
(symbol) and say that it is the Self? Maybe you think the body is the 
Self. But consider your deep sleep. You do exist then. What is the 
pratikam  there? So the Self can be realised without pratikam .
Q: Quite true. I see the force of the words. But yet are not mantras , 
etc., helpful?
A: They are helpful. What is mantra ? You are thinking of the simple 
sounds of the mantra . Repetition of the same excludes all other 
thoughts. The single thought of the mantra japa  remains. That too 
drops away giving place to the Infinite Self, which is the mantra  
itself.
Mantra, dhyana, bhakti , etc., are all aids and finally lead to 
Swarupa , the Self, which is they themselves.
After a few minutes Maharshi continued: 
Everyone is the Self, indeed infinite. Yet each one mistakes the 
body for the Self. To know anything, illumination is necessary. 
Such illuminating agency can only be in the form of light which is 477Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
however lighting the physical light and darkness. So then that other 
Light lies beyond the apparent light and darkness. It is itself neither 
light nor darkness but is said to be Light because It illumines both. 
It is also Infinite and remains as Consciousness. Consciousness is 
the Self of which everyone is aware. No one is away from the Self. 
So each one is Self-realised. Yet what a mystery that no one knows 
this fundamental fact, and desires to realise the Self? 
This ignorance is due to the mistaking of the body for the Self. 
Realisation now consists in getting rid of this false idea that one 
is not realised. Realisation is not anything newly got. It must 
be already there in order that it may be permanent. Otherwise 
Realisation is not worth attempting.
After the false notion ‘I-am-the-body’ or ‘I have not realised’ 
is removed, Supreme Consciousness or the Self alone is left 
over, which is however called Realisation in the present state of 
knowledge. However, the truth is that Realisation is eternal and 
already there, here and now.
Finally, Realisation amounts to elimination of ignorance and 
nothing more or less.
Q: My profession requires my stay in my place. I cannot remain in 
the vicinity of sadhus . Can I have realisation even in the absence 
of sat sanga  as necessitated by my circumstances?
A: Sat is aham pratyaya saram  = the Self of selves. The sadhu  is that 
Self of selves. He is immanent in all. Can anyone remain without 
the Self? No. So no one is away from sat sanga .
30th April, 1938
Talk 483. 
Mr. Sitaramiah, a visitor:  What does samyamana  mean in Patanjali 
Yoga Sutra?
A: One-pointedness of mind.
Q: By such samyamana  in the Heart, chitta samvit  is said to result. 
What does it mean?
A: Chitta samvit  is Atma jnana i.e ., Knowledge of the Self.478Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 484. 
Q: I think that celibacy and initiation are prerequisites even for a 
householder in order that he may succeed in self-investigation. Am 
I right? Or can a householder observe celibacy and seek initiation 
from a master on occasions only?
A: First ascertain who the wife and the husband are. Then these 
questions will not arise.
Q: Engaged in other pursuits, can the mental activities be checked and the 
query "Who am I?" pursued? Are they not contrary to each other?
A: These questions arise only in the absence of strength of mind. As 
the mental activities diminish its strength increases.
Q: Does the Karma theory mean that the world is the result of action 
and reaction? If so, action and reaction of what?
A: Until realisation there will be Karma, i.e., action and reaction; 
after realisation there will be no Karma, no world.
Talk 485 .
Q: While engaged in Atma vichara  (the investigation of the Self), I 
fall asleep. What is the remedy for it?
A: Do nama-sankirtana  (sing the name of God).
Q: It is ruled out in sleep.
A: True. The practice should be continued while awake. Directly you 
wake up from sleep, you must resume it. The sleeper does not care 
for Atma vichara. So he need not practise anything. The waking 
self desires it and so he must do it.
In the course of conversation Sri Bhagavan continued: The mind 
is something mysterious. It consists of satva, rajas  and tamas . 
The latter two give rise to vikshepa . In the satva  aspect, it remains 
pure and uncontaminated. So there are no thoughts there and it is 
identical with the Self. The mind is like akasa  (ether). Just as there 
are the objects in the akasa , so there are thoughts in the mind. The 
akasa  is the counterpart of the mind and objects are of thought. 
One cannot hope to measure the universe and study the phenomena. 
It is impossible. For the objects are mental creations. To measure 
them is similar to trying to stamp with one’s foot on the head of 479Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
the shadow cast by oneself. The farther one moves the farther the 
shadow does also. So one cannot plant one’s foot on the head of 
the shadow. (Here Sri Bhagavan related several incidents connected 
with shadows including the pranks of monkeys and a mirror). A 
child sees his own shadow and tries to hold the head of the shadow. 
As he bends and puts out his arm the head moves further. The child 
struggles more and more. The mother, seeing the struggle, pities 
the young one. So she takes hold of the young hand and keeps it on 
his own head and tells the child to observe the head of the shadow 
caught in the hand. Similarly with the ignorant practiser to study 
the universe. The universe is only an object created by the mind 
and has its being in the mind. It cannot be measured as an exterior 
entity. One must reach the Self in order to reach the universe.
Again people often ask how the mind is controlled. I say to them, 
"Show me the mind and then you will know what to do." The fact is 
that the mind is only a bundle of thoughts. How can you extinguish it 
by the thought of doing so or by a desire? Your thoughts and desires 
are part and parcel of the mind. The mind is simply fattened by new 
thoughts rising up. Therefore it is foolish to attempt to kill the mind by 
means of the mind. The only way of doing it is to find its source and 
hold on to it. The mind will then fade away of its own accord. Yoga 
teaches chitta vritti nirodha  (control of the activities of the mind). 
But I say Atma vichara  (Self-investigation). This is the practical way. 
Chitta vritti nirodha  is brought about in sleep, swoon or by starvation. 
As soon as the cause is withdrawn there is recrudescence of thoughts. 
Of what use is it then? In the state of stupor there is peace and no 
misery. But misery recurs when the stupor is removed. So nirodha  
(control) is useless and cannot be of lasting benefit.
How then can the benefit be made lasting? It is by finding the cause 
of misery. Misery is due to objects. If they are not there, there will be 
no contingent thoughts and so misery is wiped off. "How will objects 
cease to be?" is the next question. The shrutis  and the sages say 
that the objects are only mental creations. They have no substantive 
being. Investigate the matter and ascertain the truth of the statement. 
The result will be the conclusion that the objective world is in the 
subjective consciousness. The Self is thus the only Reality which 
permeates and also envelops the world. Since there is no duality, no 480Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
thoughts will arise to disturb your peace. This is Realisation of the 
Self. The Self is eternal and so also its Realisation.
In the course of the discourse Sri Bhagavan also made a few points 
clearer: 
Abhyasa  consists in withdrawal within the Self every time you are 
disturbed by thought. It is not concentration or destruction of the 
mind but withdrawal into the Self.
Dhyana, bhakti, japa , etc., are aids to keep out the multiplicity of 
thoughts. A single thought prevails which too eventually dissolves 
in the Self.
The questioner quoted that the mind starved of ideas amounted to 
realisation and asked what the experience is in that state. He himself 
read out a passage from Mr. Brunton that it was indescribable. 
The answer was there. He again ventured out that it must be like 
looking through an unsilvered mirror, as contrasted with the present 
experience corresponding to looking on a silvered mirror.
Sri Bhagavan said it was a mirror facing another clear mirror, i.e., 
no reflection.
2nd May, 1938
Talk 486. 
Mr. Ganapatram:  How shall I find out "Who am I"?
A: Are there two selves for the one self to find the other?
Q: The Self must be only one consisting of two aspects of ‘I’ and 
sankalpa  (i.e., of thinker and thought).
After a time he continued:  Please say how I shall realise the ‘I’. Am 
I to make the japa, "Who am I?"
A: No japa of the kind is meant.
Q: Am I to think "Who am I"?
A: You have known that the ‘I-thought’ springs forth. Hold the ‘I-
thought’ and find its moola  (source).
Q: May I know the way?
A: Do as you have now been told and see. 
Q: I do not understand what I should do.481Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: If it is anything objective the way can be shown objectively. This 
is subjective.
Q: But I do not understand.
A: What! Do you not understand that you are?
Q: Please tell me the way.
A: Is it necessary to show the way in the interior of your own home? 
This is within you.
Q: What do you advise me to do?
A: Why should you do anything and what should you do? Only keep 
quiet. Why not do so? Each one must do according to his own state.
Q: Please tell me what is suitable to me. I want to hear from you.
(No answer.)
Talk 487. 
An English lady, a young woman, came here dressed in a Muslim sari. 
She had evidently been in North India and met Dr. G. H. Mees.
Sri Bhagavan read out a stanza "The Black Sun" from the anniversary 
number of The Vision , written by Swami Bharatananda. 
After a few minutes, Miss J. asked: One gathers from the stanza that 
one should keep on meditating until one gets merged in the state of 
consciousness. Do you think it right?
A: Yes.
Q: I go further and ask: Is it right that one should, by conscious will, 
go into that state from which there is no return?
(No answer) - Dinner bell.
Afternoon
Q: What is the object of Self-Realisation?
A: Self-Realisation is the final goal and it is the end in itself.
Q: l mean, what is the use of Self-Realisation?
A: Why should you seek Self-Realisation? Why do you not rest content 
with your present state? It is evident that you are discontented with 
the present state. The discontent is at an end if you realise the Self.482Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: What is that Self-Realisation which removes the discontent? I am in the 
world and there are wars in it. Can Self-Realisation put an end to it?
A: Are you in the world? Or is the world in you?
Q: I do not understand. The world is certainly around me.
A: You speak of the world and happenings in it. They are mere ideas 
in you. The ideas are in the mind. The mind is within you. And so 
the world is within you.
Q: I do not follow you. Even if I do not think of the world, the world 
is still there.
A: Do you mean to say that the world is apart from the mind and it 
can exist in the absence of the mind?
Q: Yes.
A: Does the world exist in your deep sleep?
Q: It does.
A: Do you see it in your sleep?
Q: No, I don’t. But others, who are awake, see it.
A: Are you so aware in your sleep? Or do you become aware of the 
other’s knowledge now?
Q: In my waking state.
A: So you speak of waking knowledge and not of sleep-experience. The 
existence of the world in your waking and dream states is admitted 
because they are the products of the mind. The mind is withdrawn in 
sleep and the world is in the condition of a seed. It becomes manifest 
over again when you wake up. The ego springs forth, identifies itself 
with the body and sees the world. So the world is a mental creation.
Q: How can it be?
A: Do you not create a world in your dream? The waking state also 
is a long drawn out dream. There must be a seer behind the waking 
and dream experiences. Who is that seer? Is it the body?
Q: It cannot be.
A: Is it the mind?
Q: It must be so.
A: But you remain in the absence of the mind. 483Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: How? 
A: In deep sleep. 
Q: l do not know if I am then.
A: If you were not how do you recollect yesterday’s experiences? Is it 
possible that there was a break in the continuity of the ‘I’ during sleep?
Q: It may be.
A: If so, a Johnson may wake up as a Benson. How will the identity 
of the individual be established?
Q: I don’t know.
A: If this argument is not clear, follow a different line. You admit 
"I slept well", "I feel refreshed after a sound sleep". So sleep was 
your experience. The experiencer now identifies himself with the 
‘I’ in the speaker. So this ‘I’ must have been in sleep also.
Q: Yes.
A: So ‘I’ was in sleep, if the world was then there, did it say that it 
existed?
Q: No. But the world tells me its existence now. Even if I deny its 
existence, I may knock myself against a stone and hurt my foot. 
The injury proves the existence of the stone and so of the world.
A: Quite so. The stone hurts the foot. Does the foot say that there 
is the stone?
Q: No. - ‘I’.
A: Who is this ‘I’? It cannot be the body nor the mind as we have 
seen before. This ‘I’ is the one who experiences the waking, dream 
and sleep states. The three states are changes which do not affect 
the individual. The experiences are like pictures passing on a screen 
in the cinema. The appearance and disappearance of the pictures 
do not affect the screen. So also, the three states alternate with one 
another leaving the Self unaffected. The waking and the dream 
states are creations of the mind. So the Self covers all. To know 
that the Self remains happy in its perfection is Self-Realisation. Its 
use lies in the realisation of Perfection and thus of Happiness.
Q: Can it be complete happiness to remain Self-realised if one does 
not contribute to the happiness of the world? How can one be 484Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
so happy when there is a war in Spain, a war in China? Is it not 
selfishness to remain Self-realised without helping the world?
A: The Self was pointed out to you to cover the universe and also 
transcend it. The world cannot remain apart from the Self. If the 
realisation of such Self be called selfishness that selfishness must 
cover the world also. It is nothing contemptible.
Q: Does not the realised man continue to live just like a non-realised 
being?
A: Yes, with this difference that the realised being does not see the 
world as being apart from the Self, he possesses true knowledge and 
the internal happiness of being perfect, whereas the other person 
sees the world apart, feels imperfection and is miserable. Otherwise 
their physical actions are similar.
Q: The realised being also knows that there are wars being waged 
in the world, just like the other man.
A: Yes.
Q: How then can he be happy?
A: Is the cinema screen affected by a scene of fire burning or sea 
rising? So it is with the Self.
The idea that I am the body or the mind is so deep that one cannot get 
over it even if convinced otherwise. One experiences a dream and knows 
it to be unreal on waking. Waking experience is unreal in other states. 
So each state contradicts the others. They are therefore mere changes 
taking place in the seer, or phenomena appearing in the Self, which is 
unbroken and remains unaffected by them. Just as the waking, dream 
and sleep states are phenomena, so also birth, growth and death are 
phenomena in the Self. which continues to be unbroken and unaffected. 
Birth and death are only ideas. They pertain to the body or the mind. The 
Self exists before the birth of this body and will remain after the death of 
this body. So it is with the series of bodies taken up in succession. The 
Self is immortal. The phenomena are changeful and appear mortal. The 
fear of death is of the body. It is not true of the Self. Such fear is due to 
ignorance. Realisation means True Knowledge of the Perfection and 
Immortality of the Self. Mortality is only an idea and cause of misery. 
Y ou get rid of it by realising the Immortal nature of the Self.485Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
3rd May, 1938
The same lady continued: If the world is only a dream, how should 
it be harmonised with the Eternal Reality?
A: The harmony consists in the realisation of its inseparateness 
from the Self.
Q: But a dream is fleeting and unreal. It is also contradicted by the 
waking state.
A: The waking experiences are similar.
Q: One lives fifty years and finds a continuity in the waking 
experience which is absent in dreams.
A: You go to sleep and dream a dream in which the experiences of 
fifty years are condensed within the short duration of the dream, say 
five minutes. There is also a continuity in the dream. Which is real 
now? Is the period covering fifty years of your waking state real or 
the short duration of five minutes of your dream? The standards of 
time differ in the two states. That is all. There is no other difference 
between the experiences.
Q: The spirit remains unaffected by the passing phenomena and by 
the successive bodies of repeated births. How does each body get 
the life to set it acting?
A: The spirit is differentiated from matter and is full of life. The 
body is animated by it.
Q: The realised being is then the spirit and unaware of the world.
A: He sees the world but not as separate from the Self.
Q: If the world is full of pain why should he continue the                 
world-idea?
A: Does the realised being tell you that the world is full of pain? It is the 
other one who feels the pain and seeks the help of the wise saying that 
the world is painful. Then the wise one explains from his experience that 
if one withdraws within the Self there is an end of pain. The pain is felt 
so long as the object is different from oneself. But when the Self is found 
to be an undivided whole who and what is there to feel? The realised 
mind is the Holy Spirit and the other mind is the home of the devil. For 
the realised being this is the Kingdom of Heaven. "The Kingdom of 
Heaven is within you." That Kingdom is here and now.486Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 488. 
A group of young men asked: "It is said that healthy mind can be only 
in a healthy body. Should we not attempt to keep the body always 
strong and healthy?"
A: In that way there will be no end of attention to the health of the 
body.
Q: The present experiences are the result of past Karma. If we know 
the mistakes committed in the past, we can rectify them.
A: If one mistake is rectified there yet remains the whole sanchita  
which is going to give you innumerable births. So that is not the 
procedure. The more you prune a plant, the more vigorously it 
grows. The more you rectify your Karma, the more it accumulates. 
Find the root of Karma and cut it off.
4th May, 1938
Talk 489. 
Another group of visitors was asking the method of Realisation. 
In the course of a reply Sri Bhagavan said: "Holding the mind and 
investigating it is advised for a beginner. But what is mind after 
all? It is a projection of the Self. See for whom it appears and from 
where it rises. The ‘I-thought’ will be found to be the root-cause. Go 
deeper; the ‘I-thought’ disappears and there is an infinitely expanded 
‘I-consciousness’. That is otherwise called Hiranyagarbha . When it 
puts on limitations it appears as individuals."
Talk 490. 
The English lady desired to have a private talk with Sri Bhagavan. 
She began, "I am returning to England. I leave this place this 
evening. I want to have the happiness of Self-Realisation in my 
home. Of course it is not easy in the West. But I shall strive for it. 
What is the way to do it?"
A: If Realisation be something outside you a way can be shown 
consistent with the safety of the individual, his capacity. etc. Then 
the questions if it is realisable and, if so, in what time - will also 
arise. But here, Realisation is of the Self. You cannot remain without 487Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
the Self. The Self is always realised. But only you do not recognise 
the fact. The Realisation is now obscured by the present world-
idea. The world is now seen outside you and the idea associated 
with it obscures your real nature. All that is needed is to overcome 
this ignorance and then the Self stands revealed. No special effort 
is necessary to realise the Self. All efforts are for eliminating the 
present obscuration of the Truth.
A lady is wearing a necklace round her neck. She forgets it, imagines 
it to be lost and impulsively looks for it here, there and everywhere. 
Not finding it, she asks her friends if they have found it anywhere, until 
one kind friend points to her neck and tells her to feel the necklace 
round the neck. The seeker does so and feels happy that the necklace 
is found. Again, when she meets her other friends, they ask her if her 
lost necklace was found. She says ‘yes’ to them, as if it were lost and 
later recovered. Her happiness on re-discovering it round her neck 
is the same as if some lost property was recovered. In fact she never 
lost it nor recovered it. And yet she was once miserable and now she 
is happy. So also with the realisation of the Self. The Self is always 
realised. The Realisation is now obscured. When the veil is removed 
the person feels happy at rediscovering the ever-realised Self. The 
ever-present Realisation appears to be a new Realisation.
Now, what should one do to overcome the present ignorance. Be 
eager to have the true knowledge. As this eagerness grows the wrong 
knowledge diminishes in strength until it finally disappears.
Q: The other day you were saying that there is no awareness in deep 
sleep. But I have on rare occasions become aware of sleep even 
in that state.
A: Now, of these three factors, the awareness, sleep and knowledge 
of it, the first one is changeless. That awareness, which cognised 
sleep as a state, now sees the world also in the waking state. The 
negation of the world is the state of sleep. The world may appear or 
disappear - that is to say, one may be awake or asleep - the awareness 
is unaffected. It is one continuous whole over which the three states 
of waking, dream and sleep pass. Be that awareness even now. That 
is the Self - that is Realisation - there is Peace - there is Happiness.
The lady thanked Maharshi and retired.488Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
7th May. 1938
Talk 491. 
Mr. Kishorelal Mashruwala, President, Gandhi Seva Sangh, asked: 
"How is Brahmacharya  to be practised in order that it may be 
successfully lived up to?"
A: It is a matter of will-power. Satvic  food, prayers, etc., are useful 
aids to it.
Q: Young men have fallen into bad habits. They desire to get over 
them and seek our advice.
A: Mental reform is needed.
Q: Can we prescribe any special food, exercise, etc., to them?
A: There are some medicines. Yogic asanas  and satvic  food are 
also useful.
Q: Some young persons have taken a vow of brahmacharya . They 
repent of the vow after the lapse of ten or twelve years. Under 
these circumstances should we encourage young persons to take 
the vow of brahmacharya ?
A: This question will not arise in the case of true brahmacharya .
Q: Some young men take the vow of brahmacharya  without knowing 
its full implications. When they find it difficult to carry it out in 
practice, they seek our advice.
A: They need not take a vow but they may try it without the vow.
Q: Is naishthika brahmacharya  (life-long celibacy) essential as a 
sadhana  for Self-Realisation?
A: Realisation itself is naishthika brahmacharya . The vow is not 
brahmacharya . Life in Brahman is brahmacharya  and it is not a 
forcible attempt at it.
Q: It is said that kama  (desire), krodha  (anger), etc.. vanish in the 
presence of the Sadguru. Is it so?
A: It is correct. Kama  and krodha  must vanish before Self-
Realisation.
Q: But all the disciples of a guru are not of the same degree of 
advancement. There are found lapses in a few cases. Who is 
responsible for such lapses?489Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: There is no connection between Self-Realisation and individual 
predispositions ( samskara ). It is not always possible to live up to 
the ideal of the Guru.
Q: Do not passions affect Realisation?
A: The attempt to cleanse oneself will be automatic.
Q: Is it not necessary to wash off all impurities before Realisation?
A: Jnana  will wash them clean.
Q: Gandhiji is often perplexed finding his intimate disciples going 
wrong. He wonders how it could happen and thinks that it is due 
to his own defects. Is it so?
A: (Sri Bhagavan smiled and answered after a few minutes) Gandhiji 
has struggled so long to perfect himself. All others will be right 
in due course.
Q: Is the Hindu view of reincarnation correct?
A: No definite answer is possible for this question. There are pros 
and cons for the view. Even the present birth is denied natvevaham 
jatu nasam  etc., ( Bhagavad Gita ). We were never born, etc.
Q: Is not individuality anadi  (without beginning)?
A: Investigate and see if there is any individuality at all. Ask this 
question after solving this problem. 
Nammalvar says: "In ignorance I took the ego to be myself; 
however, with right knowledge, the ego is nowhere and only you 
remain as the SELF." 
Both monists and dualists are agreed on the necessity of Self-
Realisation. Let us do it first and then discuss the side-issues. 
Advaita  or dvaita  cannot be decided on theoretical considerations 
alone. If the Self is realised the question will not arise at all. Even 
Suka had no confidence in his brahmacharya  whereas Sri Krishna 
was sure of his brahmacharya . Self-Realisation is designated by so 
many different names, satya, brahmacharya , etc. What is natural 
to the state of Self-Realisation forms the disciplinary course in 
the other state. "I-am-the-body" idea will become extinct only on 
Self-Realisation. With its extinction the vasanas  become extinct 
and all virtues will remain ever.490Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: Samskaras  are said to persist even in a Jnani .
A: Yes. They are bhoga hetu  (leading to enjoyment only) and not 
bandha hetu .
Q: This fact is often abused by fakes who pretend to be sadhus  but lead 
vicious lives. They say it is prarabdha  (remnant of past Karma). 
How shall we mark off the fakes from the genuine sadhus ?
A: The one who has given up the idea of being the doer cannot 
repeat, "This is my prarabdha ". "The jnanis  lead different lives" 
is said for the benefit of others. The jnanis  cannot make use of this 
in explanation of their lives and conduct.
(After a few minutes, Sri Bhagavan remarked about Mr. Kishorelal’s 
weak body).
Mr. Kishorelal:  I am asthmatic. I have never been strong. Even as a 
baby I was not fed on my mother’s milk.
A: Here the mind is strong and the body is weak.
Q: I wanted to practise Raja Yoga. I could not do it because of 
my physical unfitness. The mind also began to wander with the 
movement of the body.
A: If the mind be kept immovable let the body change as much as 
it likes.
Q: Is it not a handicap to the beginner?
A: Attempts must be made in spite of handicaps.
Q: Of course. But they will be momentary.
A: The idea of ‘momentary’ is one among so many other ideas. So 
long as thoughts persist this idea also will recur. Concentration is 
our own nature ( i.e. BE-ing). There is the effort now: but it ceases 
after Self-Realisation.
Q: It is said to be the interval between flights of mind
A: This too is due to the activity of the mind.
The Devotee submitted that whenever he had thought that he had found 
something original, he later discovered that he was already forestalled.
Sri Bhagavan pointed out that everything remains already in the 
germinal form and so there can be nothing new.491Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
8th May, 1938
Talk 492. 
In a suit by the temple against the Government regarding the ownership 
of the Hill Sri Bhagavan was cited as a witness. He was examined by 
a commission. In the course of the examination-in-chief Sri Bhagavan 
said that Siva always remains in three forms: (1) as Parabrahman  (2) 
as Linga  (here as the Hill) and (3) as Siddha . (Brahma Rupa; Linga 
Rupa; Siddha Rupa ).
There are some tirthas  on the Hill, e.g., Mulaipal Tirtha  and Pada 
Tirtha , said to have been originated for or by Virupakshi Devar and 
Guha Namassivayar. There is also Rshabha Tirtha . All of them are 
in good condition.
Siva originally appeared as a column of Light. On being prayed to, the 
Light disappeared into the Hill and manifested as Linga. Both are Siva.
Maharshi said:  The buildings or asramams grow around me. I do not 
wish for them. I do not ask for them nor prevent their formation. I 
have known that actions are done even though I did not want them 
to be done. So I conclude that they must  happen and I therefore 
do not say ‘no’.
Question:  Is the present Sarvadhikari to be your successor?
A: Yes. Only management.
(i.e., succession here means simple supervision).
Question:  Is the work now being carried out by him?
A: He simply supervises the work. The work is being done by others 
as well.
18th May, 1938
Talk 493. 
An Andhra visitor:  What will aid me to fix my attention always at 
Thy Holy Feet?
A: The thought ‘Am I ever away from the feet?’
Q: How is this thought to be fixed?
A: By driving away other thoughts which counteract this.492Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 494. 
Sri Bhagavan had gone through "Turn Eastwards" - the whole book 
of Mademoiselle Pascaline Maillert - and spoke for about an hour 
on that book. He said that the writing is full of feeling and the writer 
is sincere. The book is written in simple style and finishes off with 
remembrance of Himself. A few errors here and there might be pointed 
out to be corrected in subsequent editions. Nandanar Charitra has 
been repeated twice under the mistaken notion that the incident was 
on two different occasions. Prithvi, Ap , etc., lingas  are wrongly 
located. Sri Bhagavan thinks the book well-written. He interprets 
"Turn Eastwards" as "Turn to the Source of Light". This book is a 
good supplement to Mr. Brunton’s book.
29th May, 1938
Talk 495. 
A Cochin Brahmin, Professor in the Ernakulam College, had an interesting 
conversation with Sri Bhagavan. Sri Bhagavan advised surrender to God. 
The visitor gave a glimpse of an ICS Officer. The gentleman while a 
student was an atheist or an agnostic. He is very pious now and the change 
has surprised everyone who had known him before.
In further conversation, the following points were noteworthy - 
The visitor said: "One must become satiate with the fulfilment of 
desires before they are renounced." Sri Bhagavan smiled and cut 
in: "Fire might as well be put out by pouring spirit over the flames. 
(All laugh). The more the desires are fulfilled, the deeper grows the 
samskara . They must become weaker before they cease to assert 
themselves. That weakness is brought about by restraining oneself 
and not by losing oneself in desires.
Q: How can they be rendered weaker?
A: By knowledge. You know that you are not the mind. The desires 
are in the mind. Such knowledge helps one to control them.
Q: But they are not controlled in our practical lives.
A: Every time you attempt satisfaction of a desire the knowledge 
comes that it is better to desist. Repeated reminders of this kind 493Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
will in due course weaken the desires. What is your true nature? 
How can you ever forget it? Waking, dream and sleep are mere 
phases of the mind. They are not of the Self. You are the witness 
of these states. Your true nature is found in sleep.
Q: But we are advised not to fall into sleep during meditation.
A: That is stupor you must guard against. That sleep which alternates 
with waking is not true sleep. That waking which alternates with 
sleep is not true waking. Are you now awake? You are not. You 
are required to wake up to your real state. You should not fall into 
false sleep nor keep falsely awake. Hence:
Laye sambodhayeccittam vikshiptam samayet punah .
What does it mean? It means that you should not fall into any one of 
these states but remain amidst them in your true unsullied nature.
Q: The states are of our mind only.
A: Whose mind? Hold it and see.
Q: The mind cannot be held. It is that which creates all these. It is 
known only by its effects and not in its true nature.
A: Quite so. You see the colours of the spectrum. Together they 
form the white light. But seven colours are seen through the prism. 
Similarly, the one Self resolves itself into so many phases, mind, 
world, body, etc. The Self is seen as the mind, the body or the world. 
That is to say, it becomes whatever you perceive it to be.
Q: These are difficult to follow in practice. I will hold on to God 
and surrender.
A: That is the best.
Q: How can I do my duties without attachment? There is my wife, 
there are my children. I must do my duty towards them. Affection 
is necessary. Am I right?
A: How do you do your work in the College?
Q: (laughing) For wages.
A: Not because you are attached, simply as doing your duty.
Q: But my pupils expect me to love them.
A: "Detachment in the interior and attachment in appearance," says 
Yoga Vasishta .494Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
9th June, 1938
Talk 496. 
A Swami  belonging to Sri Ramakrishna Mission had a very interesting 
conversation with Sri Bhagavan in the course of which Sri Bhagavan 
observed:
A: Avidya  (ignorance) is the obstacle for knowing your true nature 
even at the present moment.
Q: How is one to get over Avidya ?
A: Ya na vidyate sa avidya  (What is not, is avidya ). So it is itself a myth. If 
it really be, how can it perish? Its being is false and so it disappears.
Q: Although I understand it intellectually, I cannot realise the Self.
A: Why should this thought disturb your present state of realisation.
Q: The Self is One, but yet I do not find myself free from the present 
trouble.
A: Who says this? Is it the Self which is only one? The question 
contradicts itself.
Q: Grace is necessary for realisation.
A: Inasmuch as you, being a man, now understand that there is a 
higher power guiding you, it is due to Grace. Grace is within you. 
Isvaro gururatmeti  (Isvara , Guru and the Self are synonymous).
Q: I pray for that Grace.
A: Yes, yes.
10th June, 1938
Talk 497. 
In the course of a different conversation. Sri Bhagavan said:
Satva  is the light,
Rajas  is the subject, and
Tamas is the object.
Even the satva  light is only reflected light. Were it pure, original Light, 
there would be no modification in it. The manokasa  (mind-ether) is 
reflected as bhootakasa  (element-ether) and objects are seen as being 
separate from the subject.495Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Samadhi  is present even in vyavaharadasa  (practical life). Our 
activities ( vyavahara ) have no existence apart from samadhi . The 
screen is there when the pictures move past on it and also when they 
are not projected. Similarly, the Self is always there in vyavahara  
(activity) or in shanti  (peace).
Talk 498. 
People often say that a mukta purusha  should go out and preach his 
message to the people. They argue, how can anyone be a mukta  so 
long as there is misery by his side? True. But who is a mukta ? Does 
he see misery beside him? They want to determine the state of a 
mukta  without themselves realising the state. From the standpoint of 
the mukta  their contention amounts to this: a man dreams a dream 
in which he finds several persons. On waking up, he asks, "Have the 
dream individuals also wakened?" It is ridiculous.
Again, a good man says, "It does not matter even if I do not get mukti . 
Or let me be the last man to get it so that I shall help all others to 
be muktas  before I am one." It is all very good. Imagine a dreamer 
saying, "May all these wake up before I do". The dreamer is no more 
absurd than the amiable philosopher aforesaid.
Talk 499. 
The Swami  of Sri Ramakrishna Mission had more questions to ask:
Swamiji, I went up the hill to see the asramas  in which you lived in 
your youth. I have also read your life. May I know if you did not then 
feel that there is God to whom you should pray or that you should 
practise something in order to reach this state?
A: Read the life and you will understand. Jnana  and ajnana  are of 
the same degree of truth; that is, both are imagined by the ignorant; 
that is not true from the standpoint of the Jnani .
Q: Is a Jnani  capable or likely to commit sins?
A: An ajnani  sees someone as a Jnani  and identifies him with the 
body. Because he does not know the Self and, mistakes his body 
for the Self, he extends the same mistake to the state of the Jnani . 
The Jnani  is therefore considered to be the physical frame.496Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Again since the ajnani , though he is not the doer, yet imagines himself 
to be the doer and considers the actions of the body his own, he thinks 
the Jnani  to be similarly acting when the body is active. But the 
Jnani  himself knows the Truth and is not confounded. The state of a 
Jnani  cannot be determined by the ajnani  and therefore the question 
troubles only the ajnani  and never does it arise for the Jnani . If he is 
a doer he must determine the nature of the actions. The Self cannot 
be the doer. Find out who is the doer and the Self is revealed.
Q: There could be no advaita  in actions. That is how the questions 
arose.
A: But the stanza says there should be. This ‘do’ is applicable only 
to the practiser and not the accomplished ones.
Q: Yes. I quite see it. Moreover, advaita  cannot be practised in one’s 
dealings with the Guru. For, consistently with it, he cannot receive 
instructions.
A: Yes, the Guru is within and not without. A Tamil saint has said, 
"O Guru! always abiding within me, but manifesting now in human 
form only to guide and protect me!" What is within as the Self 
manifests in due course as Guru in human shape.
Q: So it amounts to this. To see a Jnani  is not to understand him. 
You see the jnani’ s  body and not his jnanam . One must therefore 
be a Jnani  to know a Jnani .
A: The Jnani  sees no one as an ajnani . All are only jnanis  in his sight. 
In the ignorant state one superimposes his ignorance on a Jnani  
and mistakes him for a doer. In the state of jnana , the Jnani  sees 
nothing separate from the Self. The Self is all shining and only pure 
jnana . So there is no ajnana  in his sight. There is an illustration 
for this kind of allusion or super-imposition. Two friends went to 
sleep side by side. One of them dreamt that both of them had gone 
on a long journey and had strange experiences. On waking up he 
recapitulated them and asked his friend if it was not so. The other 
one simply ridiculed him saying that it was only his dream and 
could not affect the other.
So it is with the ajnani  who superimposes his illusive ideas on 
others.497Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Regarding ajnana  in early youth and jnana  at the present time, Sri 
Bhagavan said: There is no jnana  as it is commonly understood. 
The ordinary ideas of jnana  and ajnana  are only relative and false. 
They are not real and therefore not abiding. The true state is the 
non-dual Self. It is eternal and abides whether one is aware or not. 
It is like kanthabharana  or the tenth man.
Q: Someone else points it out.
A: That one is not external. You mistake the body for the Guru. But 
the Guru does not think himself so. He is the formless Self. That 
is within you; he appears without only to guide you.
Talk 500. 
Q: When all the thoughts are banished and the mind is still or enters 
into a state of nothingness or emptiness, what is the nature of effort 
needed on the part of the ‘seeker’ to have a pratyakshabhava  of 
the ‘sought’ ( e.g., seeing a mango as a mango)?
A: Who sees nothingness or emptiness? What is pratyaksha ? Do you call 
perception of mango pratyaksha ? It involves the play of karma, karta , 
and karya  (action, doer and deed). So it is relative and not absolute. 
Because you see a thing now you say there is nothing afterwards ( i.e., 
when you no longer see it). Both are functions of the mind. What lies 
behind both these assertions is pratyaksha . There is indriya pratyaksha  
(directly perceived by senses), manasa pratyaksha  (directly perceived 
by the mind) and sakshat pratyaksha  (realised as the very Being). The 
last alone is true. The others are relative and untrue.
Q: If no effort is needed, can the perpetuated state of emptiness of 
mind be called the state of realisation?
A: Effort is needed so long as there is mind. The state of emptiness 
has been the bone of contention in all philosophies.
Q: Is there anything like pratyakshabhava  in the state of realisation 
or is realisation merely felt or experienced as the very Being or 
Sthiti  of the soul?
A: Pratyaksha  is very being and it is not feeling, etc.
Q: Until the seeker realizes that he is the sought, the above questions 
arise for him (the former).498Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: True. See if you are the seeker. The Self is often mistaken for the 
knower. Is there not the Self in deep sleep, i.e., nescience? Therefore 
the Self is beyond knower and knowledge. These doubts are in the 
realm of mind. To speak from this point of view, the advice is to keep 
the mind clear, and when rajas  and tamas  are wiped off, then the satva  
mind alone exists. So the ‘I’ vanishes in the satva  (oonadhal kan ).
Jnana chakshus  does not mean that it is an organ of perception 
like the other sense-organs. Jnanameva chakshuh . Television, etc., 
are not functions of jnana chakshus . So long as there is a subject 
and also an object it is only relative knowledge. Jnana  lies beyond 
relative knowledge. It is absolute.
The Self is the source of subject and object. Now ignorance 
prevailing, the subject is taken to be the source. The subject is the 
knower and forms one of the triads whose components cannot exist 
independent of one another. So the subject or the knower cannot be 
the ultimate Reality. Reality lies beyond subject and object. When 
realised there will be no room for doubt.
"Bhidyate hridayagranthih 
chhidyante sarvasamsayah ."
The heart knot is snapped; doubts are set at rest. That is called 
pratyaksha  and not what you are thinking of. Avidya nasa  is alone 
Self-Realisation. Self-Realisation is only owpacharika . Self-
Realisation is only a euphemism for elimination of ignorance.
12th July, 1938
Talk 501. 
A young Mysorean asked:
Q: How did I get this body?
A: You speak of ‘I’ and the ‘body’. There is the relationship between 
the two. You are not therefore the body. The question does not occur 
to the body because it is inert. There is an occasion when you are 
not aware of the body - namely, in deep sleep. The question does 
not arise then. Nevertheless you are there in sleep. To whom does 
the question arise now?499Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: The ego.
A: Yes. The body and the ego rise up together and sink together. There 
is an occasion when you are not associated with the ego in deep sleep. 
Now you are associated with the ego. Of these two states which is 
your real state? Y ou are present in sleep and the same "Y ou" is present 
now too. Why should the doubt arise now and not then? You are 
right in saying that it is for the ego. You are not the ego. The ego is 
intermediate between the Self and the body. You are the Self. Find 
out the origin of the ego and see if the doubt persists.
Sri Bhagavan added after a few minutes: The answer, according to 
sastras , will be that the body is due to karma . The question will be 
how did karma  arise? We must say "from a previous body" and so on 
without end. The direct method of attack is not to depend on invisible 
hypotheses but to ask "Whose Karma  is it? Or whose body?" Hence 
I answered in this manner. This is more purposeful.
14th August, 1938
Talk 502. 
Sjt. Rajendra Prasad and Sjt. Jamnalal Bajaj with others are on a visit 
to Sri Maharshi.
16th August - Sjt. J. B. asked questions:
Q: How is the mind to be steadily kept right?
A: All living beings are aware of their surroundings and therefore 
intellect must be surmised in all of them. At the same time, there is 
a difference between the intellect of man and that of other animals, 
because man not only sees the world as it is and acts accordingly, 
but also seeks fulfilment of desires and is not satisfied with the 
existing state of affairs. In his attempt to fulfil his desires he extends 
his vision far and wide and yet he turns away dissatisfied. He now 
begins to think and reason.
The desire for permanency of happiness and of peace bespeaks 
such permanency in his own nature. Therefore he seeks to find and 
regain his own nature, i.e., his Self. That found, all is found.
Such inward seeking is the path to be gained by man’s intellect. The 
intellect itself realises after continuous practice that it is enabled by 500Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
some Higher Power to function. It cannot itself reach that Power. 
So it ceases to function after a certain stage. When it thus ceases 
to function the Supreme Power is still left there all alone. That is 
Realisation; that is the finality; that is the goal.
It is thus plain that the purpose of the intellect is to realise its own 
dependence upon the Higher Power and its inability to reach the 
same. So it must annihilate itself before the goal is gained.
Q: A sloka is quoted which means: "I do not desire kingdoms, etc. 
Only let me serve Thee for ever and there lies my highest pleasure." 
Is that right?
A: Yes. There is room for kama  (desire) so long as there is an object 
apart from the subject ( i.e., duality). There can be no desire if there 
is no object. The state of no-desire is moksha . There is no duality 
in sleep and also no desire. Whereas there is duality in the waking 
state and desire also is there. Because of duality a desire arises for 
the acquisition of the object. That is the outgoing mind, which is 
the basis of duality and of desire. If one knows that Bliss is none 
other than the Self the mind becomes inward turned. If the Self 
is gained all the desires are fulfilled. That is the apta kamah atma 
kamah akamascha  (fulfilment of desire) of the Brihadaranyaka 
Upanishad . That is moksha.
Here J. B. tried to make himself clear by saying that what he meant 
by sadbuddhi  was not the same as buddhi . It means that which holds 
fast to the good, the right and the chosen path. He wanted to know 
how such steadfastness could be gained.
A: What is wanted for gaining the highest goal is loss of individuality. 
The intellect is co-extensive with individuality. Loss of individuality 
can only be after the disappearance of buddhi , good or bad. The 
question therefore does not arise.
Q: But yet one must know the right thing, choose the right path, 
practise the right dharma  and hold fast to it. Otherwise he is lost.
A: True strength accrues by keeping in the right direction without 
swerving from it.
Q: Difficulties are met with. How is one to get the strength necessary 
to overcome the obstacles which beset one’s path?501Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: By means of devotion and company of the sages.
Q: Loss of individuality was just before mentioned as a prerequisite 
to moksha . Now devotion and association with the wise are advised 
as the methods. Is there not individuality implied in them e.g., in 
"I am a bhakta ", "I am a satsangi "?
A: The method is pointed out to the seeker. The seeker has certainly 
not lost his individuality so far. Otherwise the question would not 
have arisen. The way is shown to effect the loss of individuality 
of the seeker. It is thus appropriate.
Q: Is the desire for swaraj  right?
A: Such desire no doubt begins with self-interest. Yet practical work 
for the goal gradually widens the outlook so that the individual 
becomes merged in the country. Such merging of the individuality 
is desirable and the related karma  is nishkama  (unselfish) .
Q: If swaraj  is gained after a long struggle and terrible sacrifices, is 
not the person justified in being pleased with the result and elated 
by it?
A: He must have in the course of his work surrendered himself to the 
Higher Power whose Might must be kept in mind and never lost 
sight of. How then can he be elated? He should not even care for the 
result of his actions. Then alone the karma  becomes unselfish.
Q: How can unerring rectitude be ensured for the worker?
A: If he has surrendered himself to God or to Guru the Power to which 
he had surrendered will take him on the right course. The worker 
need no longer concern himself about the rectitude or otherwise of 
the course. The doubt will arise only if he fails to obey the Master 
in all details.
Q: Is there not any Power on earth which can bestow Grace on Its 
devotees so that they may grow strong to work for the country and 
gain swaraj ? (Sri Maharshi remained silent. This, He later said, 
signified that such was the case).
Q: Is not the tapasya  of the ancient mahatmas  of the land available 
for the benefit of its present-day inheritors?
A: It is, but the fact must not be overlooked that no one can claim to 
be the sole beneficiary. The benefits are shared by all alike. 502Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
 (After a pause) Is it without such saving Grace that the present 
awakening has come into being? (Here Sri Bhagavan said that 
before His arrival in Tiruvannamalai in 1896, there was not any 
clear political thought in India. Only Dadabhai Nauroji had become 
an M.P.).
After a short pause, J. B. said: Sri Rajendra Prasad is such a noble 
and selfless worker for the country that he has sacrificed a very 
lucrative career for this work. The country needs him. And yet he 
is not in good health, and is always weak and ailing. Why should 
there be such cruelty to such a noble son of the country?
(Sri Maharshi simply smiled a benign smile). 
17th August, 1938
Talk 503. 
An American gentleman, Mr. J. M. Lorey, has been staying in the 
Asramam for about two months. He asked:
I am leaving tonight. It gives me pain to tear myself away from this 
place. But I must go to America. I ask for a message from the Master. 
The Master understands me even better than I do myself. So I pray 
for a message to keep me up when I am away from the Master.
A: The Master is not outside you as you seem to imagine. He is 
within, is in fact the Self. Recognise this truth. Seek within you 
and find Him there. Then you will have constant communion with 
Him. The message is always there; it is never silent; it can never 
forsake you: nor can you ever move away from the Master.
Your mind is outgoing. Because of that tendency it sees objects as 
being outside and the Master among them. But the Truth is different. 
The Master is the Self. Turn the mind within and you will find the 
objects within. You will also realise that it is the Master who is 
your very Self and there is nothing but Him.
Because you identify yourself with the body you have accepted 
objects as being outside you. But are you the body? You are not. 
You are the Self. There  are all the objects and the whole universe. 
Nothing can escape the Self. How then can you move away from 
the Master who is your very Self? Suppose your body moves from 503Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
place to place; does it ever move away from your Self? Similarly, 
you can never be without the Master.
Mr. Lorey was struck by the answer although he was already 
familiar with the Master’s ways. He was even visibly moved. He 
prayed that the Grace of the Master might abide with him.
Sri Bhagavan: The Master being the Self. Grace is inseparable from 
the Self.
Mr. L. Saluted Sri Maharshi with intense fervour, saying: that he 
might be enabled to realise the Truth.
A: Is there any moment when you have not realised the Self? Can 
you ever be apart from the Self? You are always That.
Q: You are the great Master shedding joy and bliss on the world. Your 
love is indeed unlimited that you choose to abide in the world in 
human shape! But I wish to know if one should necessarily realise 
one’s Self before being of help to the country and a leader of men.
A: Realise the Self first and the rest will follow.
Q: America is now the foremost country in industrial matters, 
mechanical engineering, scientific advance and other worldly 
affairs. Will she come up to the same level in spiritual life also?
A: Certainly, she is bound to.
Q: Thank God that it will be so! I am a partner in an Engineering 
firm. But it is not of vital concern to me. I try to bring spiritual 
ideals into the work-a-day life of the firm.
A: That is good. If you surrender yourself to the Higher Power all is 
well. That Power sees your affairs through. Only so long as you think 
that you are the worker you are obliged to reap the fruits of your 
actions. If on the other hand, you surrender yourself and recognise 
your individual self as only a tool of the Higher Power, that Power 
will take over your affairs along with the fruits of actions. You are no 
longer affected by them and the work goes on unhampered. Whether 
you recognise the Power or not the scheme of things does not alter. 
Only there is a change of outlook. Why should you bear your load on 
the head when you are travelling on a train? It carries you and your 
load whether the load is on your head or on the floor of the train. 
You are not lessening the burden of the train by keeping it on your 504Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
head but only straining yourself unnecessarily. Similar is the sense of 
doership in the world by the individuals.
Q: I have been interesting myself in metaphysics for over twenty 
years. But I have not gained any novel experience as so many others 
claim to do. I have no powers of clairvoyance, clairaudience, etc. I 
feel myself locked up in this body and nothing more.
A: It is right. Reality is only one and that is the self. All the rest are 
mere Phenomena in it, of it and by it. The seer, the objects and 
the sight, all are the self only. Can anyone see or hear, leaving the 
self aside? What difference does it make to see or hear anyone in 
close proximity or over enormous distance? The organs of sight and 
hearing are needed in both cases; so also the mind is required. None 
of them can be dispensed with in either case. There is dependence 
one way or another. Why then should there be a glamour about 
clairvoyance or clairaudience?
Moreover, what is acquired will also be lost in due course. They 
can never be permanent.
The only permanent thing is Reality; and that is the Self. You 
say "I am", "I am going", "I am speaking", "I am working", etc. 
Hyphenate "I am" in all of them. Thus I - AM. That is the abiding 
and fundamental Reality. This truth was taught by God to Moses: 
"I AM that I-AM". "Be still and know that I-AM God." so "I-AM" 
is God.
You know that you are. You cannot deny your existence at any 
moment of time. For you must be there in order to deny it. This 
(Pure Existence) is understood by stilling your mind. The mind 
is the outgoing faculty of the individual. If that is turned within, 
it becomes still in course of time and that "I-AM" alone prevails. 
"I-AM" is the whole Truth.
Q: I appreciate the whole answer.
A: Who is there to appreciate what?
A question about Heart. Sri Bhagavan said: Leave alone the idea 
of right  and left. They pertain to the body. The Heart is the Self. 
Realise it and then you will see for yourself. (Mr. Lorey thanked 
Sri Bhagavan and saluted him before retiring.)505Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
18th August, 1938
Talk 504. 
A visitor asked Sri Bhagavan about the ‘over-mind’, and ‘super-mind’, 
the ‘Psychic’, the ‘Divine’ of Sri Aurobindo’s terminology.
A: Realise the Self or the Divine. All these differences will disappear.
Talk 505. 
Babu Rajendra Prasad said: I have come here with Mahatma Gandhiji’s 
permission and I must return to him soon. Can Sri Bhagavan give me 
any message for him?
A: Adhyatma sakti  is working within him and leading him on. That 
is enough. What more is necessary?
19th August, 1938
Talk 506. 
Explaining the opening stanza of Sad Vidya , Sri Bhagavan said: Sat 
(Being) is Chit (Knowledge Absolute); also Chit is Sat; what is, is only 
one. Otherwise the knowledge of the world and of one’s own being 
will be impossible. It denotes both being and knowledge. However, 
both of them are one and the same. On the other hand, be it Sat only 
and not Chit also, such Sat will only be insentient ( jada). In order 
to know it another Chit will be needed; such Chit being other than 
Sat cannot be. But it must be. Now taking Chit to be Sat, since Sat 
is Jada , Chit also becomes jada which is absurd. Again to know it 
another Chit is required, which is also absurd.
Therefore Sat and Chit are only one and the same.
22nd August, 1938
Talk 507. 
An Arya Samajist from Bangalore with a companion visited Sri 
Maharshi. He asked: What is the use of yoga-practice? Is it for 
personal use or universal benefit?
A: Yoga means union of two entities. What are they? Enquire. Use 
or benefit is in relation to some centre. What is it? Enquire.506Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: Should there be distinction of castes?
A: Who is it that sees such distinction? Find it out.
Q: I find that it is observed in this Asramam. Probably without the 
approval of Sri Bhagavan others observe it here.
A: Who are you that speak of others, etc.? Did you notice others, 
etc., in your sushupti ?
Q: I am the individuality here. I may not see others in my sleep but 
I see them now.
A: No doubt you do. But the one who sees now and the one who did 
not see in sleep are you only - the same individual. Why should you 
notice differences now and be troubled? Be as you were in sleep.
Q: That cannot be. I see it now whereas I do not see it in my sleep. 
That does not alter the existing state of affairs.
A: Do the objects exist in the absence of the subject?
Q: Their existence is independent of the subject.
A: Do you say that they exist, or do they come and announce their 
existence to you?
Q: I know that they exist.
A: So it is your knowledge of them only. Their existence is not 
absolute.
Q: Even if I did not know they will continue to exist.
A: Do you claim their existence in the absence of your knowledge 
of them? (Laughter).
Q: Brahman is equal to all. There cannot be any distinction there. 
Caste-distinction is against the highest principle.
A: Why do you drag in Brahman? He has no grievances. Let him 
who has grievances pursue the matter.
Q: You are a Mahatma. You cannot admit castes. But how do the 
people here enforce such distinctions?
A: Did I tell you that I am a Jnani  or a mahatma ? You are saying it 
yourself. Nor did I make a grievance of this caste affair.
Q: Paramatma  is the same in all.
A: Why do you bring in all these names? They can take care of 
themselves. They do not require your help.507Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: Mahatma Gandhi also admits equality...
A: Gandhi is not here.
Q: Aurobindo does not approve of castes. Do you approve of them?
A: As for Aurobindo, you ask him. As for my opinion, how does it matter 
to you? How will it be of use to you? Have you got any opinion on the 
matter? That alone will affect you, not the opinion of others.
Q: I do not approve of the caste system. Mahatma’s opinion is 
valuable as a guidance. I want your blessings in my attempts.
A: Mahatma has told you to seek and find your Self. You will not 
do it but require his blessings.
Q: I am trying to follow the instructions. But caste-distinction is 
painful. It must go.
A: To whom does it cause pain?
Q: The members of the society...
A: It is you who say it. There are countries where there are no such 
distinctions of caste. Are they free from trouble? There are wars, 
internecine struggle, etc. Why do you not remedy the evils there?
Q: There are troubles here also.
A: Differences are always there. There are not only human beings, but 
also animals, plants, etc. The state of affairs cannot be helped.
Q: We do not mind the animals, etc., at present.
A: Why not? If they could speak they would claim equality with you 
and dispute your claims no less vigorously than human beings.
Q: But we cannot help it. It is God’s work.
A: If that is God’s work then the other part is your work, is that so?
Q: It is man-made distinction.
A: You need not notice these distinctions. There is diversity in the 
world. A unity runs through the diversity. The Self is the same in 
all. There is no difference in spirit. All the differences are external 
and superficial. You find out the Unity and be happy.
The pain of diversity is overcome by the joy of the perception of 
unity. Moreover, a king may disguise himself as a servant. That 
makes no difference in the person.508Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: I do not object to differences. But the claims of superiority are wrong.
A: There are differences in the limbs of one’s body. When the hand 
touches the foot the hand is not defiled. Each limb performs its 
function. Why do you object to differences?
Q: The people feel the injustice of caste distinction. It must be rooted 
out.
A: You can individually arrive at the state where such distinctions 
are not perceived and be happy. How can you hope to reform the 
world? Even if you try you cannot succeed. Kavyakantha Ganapati 
Sastri offered to initiate Harijans with mantras and make Brahmins 
of them. But the Harijans did not come forward to accept the offer. 
That shows they are themselves afflicted by an inferiority complex. 
Remove that complex first before you try to reform others.
Moreover, why do you go to places where such distinctions are 
observed and cause pain to yourself? Why should you not seek 
places where they are not observed and be happy there?
Gandhiji also tries to bring about equality. He is also up against 
the barrier of inferiority complex afflicting the lower orders. He 
cannot enforce his views on others. He observes non-violence. So 
matters stand as they are.
Q: We must work to obliterate caste-distinctions.
A: Then do it. If you have succeeded in the world, then see if the 
distinctions persist in this place.
Q: This must be the first place where I want to effect the reform.
A: Why do you exert yourself so much to effect reforms? Go to sleep 
and see if there are differences. There you obliterate differences 
without any effort. (Laughter).
24th August, 1938
Talk 508. 
An Indian I. C. S. Officer was in the hall for a few hours. He asked: "Can 
ahimsa  put an end to wars in the world?" Sri Bhagavan did not answer and 
it was time to go out for the evening walk. The next day when someone 
else repeated the question, Sri Bhagavan said that the question contained its 
answer. It is patent that in a state of perfect ahimsa  there can be no war.509Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
26th August, 1938
Talk 509. 
Mr. MacIver had an interview with Sri Bhagavan and spoke about 
diksha .
Sri Bhagavan asked:  What is this diksha? 
After a pause, He continued, " Diksha  is of various kinds, by word, 
by sight, by touch and so forth."
Q: Bhagavan’s is mowna diksha , is it not?
A: Yes, this the highest form of diksha .
Q: Is it applicable to the vichara marga  only?
A: All the margas  are included in the vichara marga .
Q: Yes, but if one wished to take them separately, it would not be 
applicable. Would it?
A: No.
Q: Supposing one feels the need for aids to Realisation these are to 
be regarded as belonging to accessory margas . Are they not?
A: Yes.
Q: And for these then other dikshas  would be necessary. 
A: Yes.
Q: From this another question arises: So long as I am at Bhagavan’s 
feet, I cannot be regarded as a faithful Christian.
Sri Bhagavan interrupted saying that this was the essence of 
Christianity.
Q: Yes, but not in the eyes of the present representatives of the 
Church. Accordingly I can no longer look to the side of the Church 
for aid. 
Have I Bhagavan’s leave to look elsewhere?
A: That is left to you.
After a pause Sri Bhagavan spoke to the effect that people who come 
here are brought by some mysterious Power which will look to their 
needs. The conversation practically ended with this.510Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
7th September, 1938
Talk 510. 
Mr. T. K. S. Iyer read out a passage from a book which admitted of 
five different divisions of antahkaranas  as follows: (1) Ullam , (2) 
mind, (3) intellect, (4) chittam , (5) ego.
Sri Bhagavan said:  Four divisions are usual. The fifth item ullam  has 
been brought in to correspond to five tattvas thus:
(1) Ullam  (consciousness) is akasa  (ether) tattva  from the cranium 
to the brows.
(2) Manas  (thinking faculty) is vayu  (air) tattva  from the brows 
to the throat.
(3) Buddhi  (intellect) is agni (light) tattva  from the throat to the 
heart.
(4) Chitta  (memory) is jala (water) tattva  from the heart to the 
navel, and,
(5) Ahankar  (ego) is prithvi  (earth) tattva  from the navel to the 
coccyx.
Ullam  is thus the pure mind or the mind in its pure being, i.e., mind 
divested of all thoughts. It is the ether of mind corresponding to the 
expanse of mind without being crowded by thoughts. 
When a person wakes up from sleep the head is raised and 
there is the light of awareness. This light was already there in 
the heart which is later reflected on the brain and appears as 
consciousness. But this is not particularised until ahankar  steps 
in. In the undifferentiated state it is cosmic (cosmic mind or cosmic 
consciousness). This state lasts usually for a minute interval and 
passes off unnoticed. It becomes particularised or differentiated 
by the intrusion of the ego and the person says ‘I’. This is always 
associated with an entity (here, the body). So the body is identified 
as ‘I’ and all else follows.
Because ullam  is only the reflected light, it is said to be the moon. 
The original light is in the heart which is said to be the sun.511Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
9th September, 1938
Talk 511. 
Major Chadwick had translated Na karmana na prajaya  ... into 
English. Sri Bhagavan was explaining its meaning. Brahmaloka  
may be interpreted subjectively or objectively. The latter meaning 
requires faith in the sastras  which speak of such lokas , whereas the 
former meaning is purely of experience and requires no external 
authority. Brahmaloka  would mean Brahma jnana  (Knowledge of 
Brahman) or Self-Realisation ( Atma-Sakshatkara ). Parantakala  as 
opposed to aparantakala . In the latter the jivas  pass into oblivion to 
take other births. Their oblivion is enveloped in ignorance ( avidya ). 
Para  is beyond the body. Parantakala  is transcendence over the 
body, etc., i.e., jnana  (knowledge). Paramritat prakriteh  = beyond 
prakriti . Sarve  implies that all are qualified for knowledge and 
liberation ( moksha ). yatayah  = yama niyama sametah sat purushah  
= good men well disciplined. The whole passage implies passing 
into the real beyond the unreal.
na karmana na prajaya dhanena tyagenaike amritatvamanasuh 
parena nakam nihitam guhayam, vibhrajate yadyatayo visanti
vedanta vijnana sunishchitarthah sanyasayogadyatayah 
shuddha satvah 
te brahmaloke tu parantakale paramritat parimuchyanti sarve 
dahram vipapam paravesmabhutum yat pundarikam 
puramadhya samstham 
tatrapi dahram gaganam visokastasmin 
yadantastadupasitavyam 
yo vedadau svarah prokto vedante cha pratishtitah tasya 
prakritilinasya yah parah sa Mahesvarah
[Deathlessness is not obtained through action or begetting offspring 
or wealth. Some attain that state through renunciation.
The Sages (that have conquered the senses) attain that Sat which is 
more supreme than Heaven and shining all alone in the Heart.
The adepts who by renunciation and one-pointedness are pure in 
heart and have known the certainty of Truth by the special knowledge 512Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
proclaimed by Vedanta, get fully released in the Brahmaloka  from 
the causal Maya  at the dissolution of the body.
That alone which shines as the tiny Akasa void of sorrow, in the 
lotus heart, the tiny seat of the spotless Supreme in the (inner) 
core of the body is worthy of worship.
He alone is the Supreme Lord, who is beyond the Primal Word 
which is the beginning and end of the Veda and in which merges 
the creative Cause].
Mr . T. K. S. Iyer later asked something about muktaloka  (region of liberated 
souls). Sri Bhagavan said that it meant the same as Brahmaloka .
Q: Asked if some sukshma tanu  (subtle body) such as pranava tanu  
or suddha tanu  (tanu = body; suddha  = pure) was required to gain 
such loka.
A: Pranava  means real japa . It is however interpreted to be A, U, M, 
Nada  and Bindu . Of these, the first three are interpreted as Visva, 
Taijasa, Prajna and Virat, Hiranyagarbha, Isvara, Nada and Bindu  
correspond to prana and manas (mind).
The Mandukya Upanishad speaks of the three matras  and turiya 
matra . The final meaning is that it represents the real state.
To a further question, Bhagavan answered: There are said to 
be Panchapada Mahavakyani  (mahavakyas  with five words) e.g., 
Tattvamasi atinijam  (‘you are that’ is the great truth). The first three 
words have their lakshya artha  (significance) all of which signify 
only the one Truth. So many efforts and so much discipline are said 
to be necessary for eradicating the non-existing avidya !
11th September, 1938
Talk 512. 
Sri Bhagavan said: All mistake the mind-consciousness for Self-
Consciousness. There is no mind in deep sleep; but no one denies his 
being in sleep. Even a child says on waking, "I slept well," and does not 
deny its existence. The ‘I’ rises up, the mind turns outward through the 
five senses and perceives objects, this they call direct perception. Asked 
if ‘I’ is not directly perceived, they get confused, because ‘I’ does not 
announce itself as an object in front and only the perception with the 513Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
senses can be recognised by them as knowledge: this habit is so strong 
with them. A stanza in Thevaram  says: "O sages, eager to get over all 
misery, worry not about inferences and examples! Our Light is ever 
shining forth from within! With mind clear, live in God!"
This is direct perception. Will the common people admit it? They want 
God to appear in front of them as a bright Being mounted on a bull. 
Such a vision once originated must also end. It is therefore transient. 
Thevaram  speaks of the Eternal and Ever-experienced Being. This 
Thevaram  takes one directly to the Reality.
16th September, 1938
Talk 513. 
Major Chadwick again gave his versified translation of the mantra  for Sri 
Bhagavan to read. Sri Bhagavan softly spoke of the interpretation of the 
Bhashyakara  and further explained the same. To consider the Brahmaloka  
as a region is also admissible. That is what the pouraniks  say and many 
other schools also imply it by expounding kramamukti  (liberation by 
degrees). But the Upanishads speak of sadyomukti  (immediate liberation) 
as in Na tasya prana utkramanti; ihaiva praleeyante  - the pranas  do not 
rise up; they lose themselves here. So Brahmaloka  will be Realisation of 
Brahman ( Brahmasakshatkara ). It is a state and not a region. In the latter 
case, paramritat  must be properly understood. It is para inasmuch as 
avyakrita  is the causal Energy transcending the universe, amrita  because 
it persists until the Self is realised. So that paramritat  will mean avyakrita . 
The kramamukti  (liberation by degrees) school say that the upasaka  goes 
to the region of his Ishta Devata  which is Brahmaloka  to him. The souls 
passing to all other lokas  return to be reborn. But those who have gained 
the Brahmaloka  do not. Moreover those desirous of a particular loka can 
by proper methods gain the same. Whereas Brahmaloka  cannot be gained 
so long as there is any desire left in the person. Desirelessness alone will 
confer the loka on him. His desirelessness signifies the absence of the 
incentive for rebirth.
The age of Brahma is practically immeasurable. The presiding deity of 
the loka is said to have a definite period of life. When he passes away 
his loka also is dissolved. The inmates are emancipated at the same 514Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
time, irrespective of the different nature of individual consciousness 
in them prior to Self-realisation.
The kramamukti  school objects to the idea of sadyomukti  (immediate 
liberation) because the Jnani  is supposed to lose body-consciousness 
at the same time that ignorance is dispelled but he continues to live in 
the body. They ask, "How does the body function without the mind?" 
The answer is somewhat elaborate:
Knowledge ( jnana ) is not incompatible with ignorance ( ajnana ) because the 
Self in purity is found to remain along with ignorance-seed ( ajnana beeja ) 
in sleep. But the incompatibility arises only in the waking and dream states. 
Ajnana  has two aspects: avarana  (veiling) and vikshepa  (multiplicity). Of 
these, avarana  (veiling) denotes the veil hiding the Truth. That prevails in 
sleep. Multiplicity ( vikshepa ) is activity in different times. This gives rise 
to diversity and prevails in waking and dream states ( jagrat  and svapna ). 
If the veil, i.e., avarana  is lifted, the Truth is perceived. It is lifted for a 
Jnani  and so his karana sarira  (causal body) ceases to exist. Vikshepa  alone 
continues for him. Even so, it is not the same for a Jnani  as it is for an ajnani . 
The ajnani  has all kinds of vasanas , i.e., kartrtva  (doership) and bhoktrtva  
(enjoyership), whereas the Jnani  has ceased to be doer ( karta ). Thus only 
one kind of vasana  obtains for him. That too is very weak and does not 
overpower him, because he is always aware of the Sat-Chit-Ananda  nature 
of the Self. The tenuous bhoktrtva vasana  is the only remnant of the mind 
left in the Jnani  and he therefore appears to be living in the body.
This explanation when applied to the mantra  amounts to this: A Jnani  
has his karana sarira  destroyed; the sthula sarira  (gross body) has 
no effect on him and is for all practical purposes destroyed too. The 
sukshma sarira  (subtle body) alone remains. It is otherwise called 
ativahika sarira . It is this which is held by all persons after the 
physical body is given up. And with this they traverse to other lokas  
until another suitable physical body is taken. The Jnani  is supposed 
to move in Brahmaloka  with this sukshma sarira . Then that is also 
dissolved and he passes to final Liberation.
The whole explanation is meant only for the onlooker. The Jnani  
himself will never raise such questions. He knows by his experience 
that he is not bound by any kind of limitations.515Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: What is the ‘final emancipation’ according to the foregoing 
explanation?
A: The ativahika  or the sukshma sarira  corresponds to the pure light 
which one experiences just after sleep and before the rise of the ego. 
It is Cosmic Consciousness. That is only the Light reflected from 
the Heart. When the reflection ceases and abides as the Original 
Light in the Heart it is final emancipation.
Q: But Yoga Vasishtha  says that the chitta  (mind) of a jivanmukta  is 
achala  (unchanging).
A: So it is. Achala chitta  (unchanging mind) is the same as suddha 
manas  (pure mind). The jnani’ s manas  is said to be suddha manas . 
The Yoga Vasishtha  also says that Brahman  is no other than the 
jnani’ s  mind. So Brahman  is suddha manas  only.
Q: Will the description of Brahman  as Sat-Chit-Ananda  suit 
this suddha manas ? For this too will be destroyed in the final 
emancipation.
A: If suddha manas  is admitted, the Bliss ( Ananda ) experienced 
by the Jnani  must also be admitted to be reflected. This reflection 
must finally merge into the Original. Therefore the jivanmukti  
state is compared to the reflection of a spotless mirror in another 
similar mirror. What will be found in such a reflection? Pure Akasa  
(Ether). Similarly, the jnani’ s  reflected Bliss ( Ananda) represents 
only the true Bliss.
These are all only words. It is enough that a person becomes 
antarmukhi  (inward-bent). The sastras  are not needed for an 
inward turned mind. They are meant for the rest.
Talk 514. 
Mr. MacIver, a resident devotee, asked Sri Bhagavan if he might go 
to Switzerland where a Guru was inviting him. Sri Bhagavan said: 
Some Force brought him here and the same is taking him to Europe. 
Let him always remember that the world is only a projection of the 
mind, and the mind is in the Self. Wherever the body may move the 
mind must be kept under control. The body moves, but not the Self. 
The world is within the Self, that is all.516Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
17th September, 1938
Talk 515. 
Q: In the explanation given yesterday, it is said that the removal of 
avarana  results in the annihilation of the karana sarira . That is 
clear. But how is the gross body considered to fall off too?
A: The vasanas  are of two kinds: bandha hetu  (causing bondage) and 
bhoga hetu  (only giving enjoyment). The Jnani  has transcended the 
ego and therefore all the causes of bondage are inoperative. Bandha 
hetu is thus at an end and prarabdha  (past karma ) remains as bhoga 
vasana  (to give enjoyment) only. Therefore it was said that the sukshma 
sarira  alone survives jnana . Kaivalya  says that sanchita Karma (stored 
Karma) is at an end simultaneously with the rise of jnana ; that agami  
(Karma now collecting) is no longer operative owing to the absence 
of the sense of bondage, and that prarabdha  will be exhausted by 
enjoyment ( bhoga ) only. Thus the last one will end in course of time 
and then the gross body also falls away with it.
Sarira traya  (the three bodies) and Karma traya  (the three Karmas) 
are mere phrases meant for the delectation of debaters. A Jnani  is 
not affected by any of them.
An aspirant is instructed to find who he is. If he does so, he will 
take no interest in discussing such matters as the above. Find the 
Self and rest in Peace.
22nd September, 1938
Talk 516. 
A question arose if the world is real or unreal, since it is claimed to be 
both by the advaitins  themselves. Sri Bhagavan said that it is unreal 
if viewed as apart from the Self and real if viewed as the Self.
25th September, 1938
Talk 517. 
There was some reference of two slokas  in Yoga V asishtha  where spiritism 
in mlechcha desa  is mentioned. Mr. MacIver said that black magic is more 
prevalent in the West than is ordinarily known to the observer. The writer 
then remembered how Mr. Paul Brunton had once said that he actually 
feared a woman for her association with black magic.517Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Sri Bhagavan asked if the gentleman had read Devikalottaram . He 
then said that abhichara prayoga  (black magic) is condemned there. 
He also added that by such practices one compasses one’s own ruin. 
Avidya  (ignorance) is itself bad and makes one commit suicide. Why 
should black magic be also added to it?
Q: What is the pratikriya  (remedy) open to the victim of black magic?
A: Bhakti  (devotion to God).
Q: Non-resistance seems to be the only remedy for all kinds of evil 
such as slander.
A: Quite so. If one abuses another or injures him the remedy does 
not lie in retort or resistance. Simply keep quiet. This quiet will 
bring peace to the injured but make the offender restless until he 
is driven to admit his error to the injured party.
This black magic is said to have been used even against the greatest 
saints in India since time immemorial. The tapasvis  of Daruka 
forest used it against Siva Himself.
Then the conversation turned on Brahmaloka .
Sri Bhagavan said Brahmaloka  is the same as Atmaloka . Again 
Brahmaiva lokah  = Brahmalokah  (Brahma is Himself the region) 
and Brahma  is Atma . So Brahmaloka  is only the Self.
Loka, aloka  are both synonymous. It is the same as andamillakkan  in 
Ulladu Narpadu . Lokyate iti lokah  (That which is seen is loka).
27th September, 1938
Talk 518. 
Mr. V. Gupta, a Telugu Pandit, is on a visit here. Sri Bhagavan said in 
the course of conversation: Ahamkriti  (the ego) is not the same as aham . 
The latter is the Supreme Reality whereas the former is the ego. It is 
to be overcome before the Truth is realised. The Supreme Being is 
unmanifest and the first sign of manifestation is Aham Sphurana  (light 
of ‘I’). The Brihadaranyaka Upanishad  says Aham nama abhavat  (He 
became ‘I’ named). That is the original name of the Reality.
The Pandit asked about the operation of Grace. Is it the mind of the 
Guru acting on the mind of the disciple or anything different?518Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: The Highest Form of Grace is Silence ( mowna ). It is also the 
highest upadesa .
Q: Vivekananda has also said that silence is the loudest form of prayer.
A: It is so, for the seeker’s silence Guru’s silence is the loudest 
upadesa . It is also Grace in its highest form. All other dikshas  
(initiations), e.g., sparsa, chakshus  are derived from mowna  
(silence). They are therefore secondary. Mowna  is the primary form. 
If the Guru is silent the seeker’s mind gets purified by itself.
Q: Is it proper that one prays to God or Guru when one is afflicted 
by worldly ills?
A: Undoubtedly.
Talk 519. 
A: The mahavakyas  and their interpretation lead to interminable 
discussions and keep the minds of the seekers engaged externally. To 
turn the mind inward the man must directly settle down in the ‘I’. Then 
there is an end of external activities and perfect Peace prevails.
Later, a passage from the Yoga Vasishtha  was read out before Sri 
Bhagavan, indicating initiation by look and initiation by touch.
Sri Bhagavan observed: Dakshinamurti observed silence when the 
disciples approached Him. That is the highest form of initiation. It 
includes the other forms. There must be subject-object relationship 
established in the other dikshas . First the subject must emanate 
and then the object. Unless these two are there how is the one to 
look at the other or touch him? Mowna diksha  is the most perfect; 
it comprises looking, touching and teaching. It will purify the 
individual in every way and establish him in the Reality.
Talk 520. 
An Australian gentleman (Mr. Lowman) is on a visit here. He seems 
to be studying the Hindu system of Philosophy. He started saying that 
he believed in unity, the jiva is yet in illusion and so on.
A: What is the unity you believe in? How can the jiva find a place in it?
Q: The Unity is the Absolute.
A: The jiva cannot find a place in Unity.519Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: But the jiva has not realised the Absolute and imagines itself 
separate.
A: Jiva is separate because it must exist in order to imagine 
something.
Q: But it is unreal.
A: Any unreal thing cannot produce effects. It is like saying that you killed 
some animal with the horn of a hare. A hare does not grow horns.
Q: I see the absurdity. But I speak from the physical plane.
A: You say, ‘I’. Who is that ‘I’? If that is found you can later say 
whose is the illusion.
A little later Sri Bhagavan asked:
You say you are in the physical plane now. In which plane are you 
in dreamless sleep?
Q: I think in the physical plane again.
A: Y ou say, "I think". That means that you are saying it now when you are 
awake. Anyway you admit that you exist in deep sleep. Don’t you?
Q: Yes, but I did not function then.
A: So then, you existed in deep sleep. You are the same one who 
continues to exist? Are you not?
Q: Yes.
A: With this difference - that you did not function in your sleep. 
Rather you are associated with the thinking faculty in your waking 
state and you are dissociated from it in sleep. Is it not so?
Q: Yes.
A: Which is then your real nature? Is it to be associated with thinking 
or to be dissociated?
Q: I see it now. But I was not aware of my being in sleep.
A: You say so now. You do not say so in your sleep. Or do you deny 
your being (very existence in sleep)?
Q: No.
A: It amounts to this that you exist in both states. The Absolute Existence 
is the Self. Y ou are also conscious of the Existence. That Existence is 
also consciousness ( Sat and Chit). That is your real nature.520Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: But thinking is necessary even for realisation.
A: That thinking is aimed at the elimination of all thinking.
Q: Owing to my ignorance, I do not realise the Absolute Existence-
Consciousness.
A: Who is the ‘I’? Whose is the ignorance! Answers to these questions 
will alone suffice to prove that you are already realised. Is there 
anyone who denies his own existence? Or can anyone say that he 
did not exist in his sleep? Pure Existence is thus admitted. The 
admission also implies consciousness. Thus all men are realised. 
There is no ignorant man at all.
Q: Yes, I understand. But I have a small question to ask. The state of 
Realisation is one of desirelessness. If a human being is desireless 
he ceases to be human.
A: You admit your existence in sleep. You did not function then. You 
were not aware of any gross body. You did not limit yourself to this 
body. So you could not find anything separate from your Self.
Now in your waking state you continue to be the same Existence 
with the limitations of the body added. These limitations make you 
see other objects. Hence arises desire. But the state of desirelessness 
in sleep made you no less happy than now. You did not feel any 
want. You did not make yourself miserable by not entertaining 
desires. But now you entertain desires because you are limited to 
this human frame. Why do you wish to retain these limitations and 
continue to entertain desires?
Sri Bhagavan continued:
Does the body tell you that it is there? It is certainly something 
apart from the body that remains aware. What is it?
Do you say that it is the ‘I’, meaning the ego which arises 
simultaneously with the waking of the individual from sleep? Be 
it so. The body is not sentient. The Absolute does not speak. The 
ego does. One does not aspire for liberation in sleep. The aspiration 
arises only in the waking state. The functions of the waking state 
are those of the ego which is synonymous with the ‘I’. Find out 
who this ‘I’ is. On doing so and abiding as ‘I’, all these doubts 
will be cleared up.521Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
28th September, 1938
Talk 521. 
Some Congressmen handed over the following questions to Maharshi:
1. How long is India destined to suffer bondage?
2. Have not the sons of India made enough sacrifice for her liberation?
3. Will India get freedom during Mahatma Gandhi’s lifetime?
The above questions were not answered categorically. Sri Bhagavan 
simply remarked:
Gandhiji has surrendered himself to the Divine and works accordingly with 
no self-interest. He does not concern himself with the results but accepts 
them as they turn up. That must be the attitude of national workers.
Q.: Will the work be crowned with success?
A: This question arises because the questioner has not surrendered 
himself.
Q.: Should we not then think of and work for the welfare of the 
country?
A: First take care of yourself and the rest will naturally follow.
Q.: I am not speaking individually but for the country. 
A: First surrender and see. The doubts arise because of the absence of 
surrender. Acquire strength by surrender and then your surroundings will 
be found to have improved to the degree of strength acquired by you.
Q.: Should we not know if our actions will be worthwhile?
A: Follow the example of Gandhiji in the work for the national cause. 
‘Surrender’ is the word.
The following slip was also handed over to Sri Bhagavan:
"Four of us have come from Coorg and we had gone to Delhi to wait as 
a deputation on the Working Committee of the Indian National Congress 
and we are now going back. We are sent from the Coorg Congress 
Committee and so kindly give us some message to the Coorg District 
Congress Committee and the people of Coorg in general."
When this slip was handed over, Sri Bhagavan said that the same answer 
holds good here too. The message is contained in the word ‘Surrender’.522Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
29th September, 1938
Talk 522. 
A visitor asked Sri Bhagavan:  I want knowledge.
A: Who wants knowledge?
Q: I want it.
A: Who is that ‘I’? Find the ‘I’ and see later what further knowledge 
is required.
2nd October, 1938
Talk 523. 
A Pilgrims’ special train brought several visitors from Bengal. One 
of them said that he had read Mr. Paul Brunton’s book and since 
then he was anxious to see Sri Bhagavan. He also asked: How shall 
I overcome my passions?
A: Find their root and then it will be easy. (Later) What are the 
passions? Kama  (lust), krodha  (anger), etc. Why do they arise? 
Because of likes and dislikes towards the objects seen. How do the 
objects project themselves in your view? Because of your avidya , 
i.e., ignorance. Ignorance of what? Of the Self. Thus, if you find 
the Self and abide therein there will be no trouble owing to the 
passions.
(Later) Again, what is the cause of the passions? Desire to be happy 
or enjoy pleasure. Why does the desire for happiness arise? Because 
your nature is happiness itself and it is natural that you come into 
your own. This happiness is not found anywhere besides the Self. 
Do not look for it elsewhere. But seek the Self and abide therein.
Still again, that happiness which is natural is simply re-discovered, 
so it cannot be lost. Whereas the happiness arising from other 
objects are external and thus liable to be lost. Therefore it cannot 
be permanent and so it is not worth seeking.
Moreover craving for pleasures should not be encouraged. One 
cannot put out burning fire by pouring petrol over it. An attempt 
to satisfy your craving for the time being, so that the passion may 
later be suppressed, is simply foolish.523Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
There are, no doubt, other methods for the suppression of passion. 
They are (1) regulated food, (2) fasting, (3) yoga practice, (4) 
medicines. But their effects are transitory. The passions reappear 
with greater force as soon as the check is removed. The only way 
to overcome them is to eradicate them. That is done by finding 
their source as stated above.
Talk 524. 
Another pilgrim asked: I am a man with a family. Is it possible for 
those in a family to get release, and if so how?
A: Now what is family? Whose family is it? If the answers to these 
questions are found the other questions solve themselves.
Tell me: Are you in the family, or is the family in you?
The visitor did not answer. Then Sri Bhagavan’s answer was 
continued: Who are you? You include three aspects of life, namely, 
the waking, the dream and the sleep states. You were not aware of the 
family and their ties in your sleep and so these questions did not arise 
then. But now you are aware of the family and their ties and therefore 
you seek release. But you are the same person throughout.
Q: Because I now feel that I am in the family it is right that I should 
seek release.
A: You are right. But consider and say: Are you in the family or is 
the family in you?
Another visitor interposed: What is family?
A: That’s it. It must be known.
Q: There is my wife and there are also my children. They are 
dependent on me. That is the family.
A: Do the members of the family bind your mind? Or do you bind 
yourself to them? Do they come and say to you "We form your 
family. Be with us"? Or do you consider them as your family and 
that you are bound to them?
Q: I consider them as my family and feel bound to them.
A: Quite so. Because you think that so-and-so is your wife and so-and-so 
are your children you also think that you are bound to them.
These thoughts are yours. They owe their very existence to you. 524Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
You can entertain these thoughts or relinquish them. The former 
is bondage and the latter is release.
Q: It is not quite clear to me.
A: You must exist in order that you may think. You may think these 
thoughts or other thoughts. The thoughts change but not you. Let 
go the passing thoughts and hold on to the unchanging Self. The 
thoughts form your bondage. If they are given up, there is release. 
The bondage is not external. So no external remedy need be sought 
for release. It is within your competence to think and thus to get 
bound or to cease thinking and thus be free.
Q: But it is not easy to remain without thinking.
A: Y ou need not cease thinking. Only think of the root of the thoughts; 
seek it and find it. The Self shines by itself. When that is found the 
thoughts cease of their own accord. That is freedom from bondage.
Q: Yes. I understand it now. I have learnt it now. Is a Guru necessary?
A: So long as you consider yourself as an individual, a Guru is 
necessary to show to you that you are not bound by limitations 
and that your nature is to be free from limitations.
Talk 525. 
Another visitor asked:  Actions are bondage. One cannot remain 
without some kind of activity. So bondage goes on increasing. 
What is one to do under the circumstances?
A: One should act in such a manner that the bondage is not 
strengthened but gets weakened. That is selfless action.
3rd October, 1938
Talk 526. 
A visitor asked Sri Bhagavan:  People give some names to God and 
say that the name is sacred and repetitions of the name bestow 
merit on the individual. Can it be true?
A: Why not? You bear a name to which you answer. But your body 
was not born with that name written on it, nor did it say to anyone 
that it bore such and such a name. And yet a name is given to you 
and you answer to that name, because you have identified yourself 525Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
with the name. Therefore the name signifies something and it is not 
a mere fiction. Similarly, God’s name is effective. Repetition of the 
name is remembrance of what it signifies. Hence its merit.
But the man did not look satisfied. Finally he wanted to retire and 
prayed for Sri Bhagavan’s Grace.
Sri Bhagavan now asked how mere sounds assuring him of Grace 
would satisfy him unless he had faith.
Both laughed and the visitor retired.
4th October, 1938
Talk 527. 
A group of respectable Coorg ladies was in the hall.
One of them asked:  I have received a mantra . People frighten me saying 
that it may have unforeseen results if repeated. It is only Pranava . 
So I seek advice. May I repeat it? I have considerable faith in it.
A: Certainly, it should be repeated with faith.
Q: Will it do by itself? Or can you kindly give me any further 
instructions?
A: The object of mantra japa  is to realise that the same japa is 
already going on in oneself even without effort. The oral japa 
becomes mental and the mental japa finally reveals itself as being 
eternal. That mantra  is the person’s real nature. That is also the 
state of realisation.
Q: Can the bliss of samadhi  be gained thus?
A: The japa becomes mental and finally reveals itself as the Self. 
That is samadhi .
Q: Please show Grace to me and strengthen me in my efforts!
13th October, 1938
Talk 528. 
A middle-aged Andhra man asked: "Is thought of God necessary for 
fixing one’s sight (or making the mind one-pointed)?"
A: What is the practice?526Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: To fix the look.
A: What for?
Q: To gain concentration.
A: The practice gives work for the eye right enough; but where is 
the work for the mind in the process?
Q: What should I do for it?
A: Thought of God, certainly.
Q: Does the practice make one ill?
A: Maybe. But all will be rightly adjusted of its own accord.
Q: I practised dhyana  for four hours a day and fixation of sight for 
two hours. I became ill. Then others said that it was owing to my 
practice. So I gave up dhyana .
A: Matters will adjust themselves.
Q: Is it not better that the gaze of the eye becomes fixed naturally?
A: What do you mean?
Q: Is practice necessary to fix the gaze or is it better to leave it to 
happen of its own accord?
A: What is practice if it is not an attempt to make something natural? 
It will become natural after long practice.
Q: Is pranayama  necessary?
A: Yes. It is useful.
Q: I did not practise it. But should I undertake it?
A: Everything will be all right with sufficient strength of mind.
Q: How shall I get the strength of mind?
A: By pranayama .
Q: Is food-regulation also necessary?
A: It is certainly useful.
Q: Should my contemplation be on the Infinite or the limited 
being?
A: What do you mean?
Q: May I contemplate on Sri Krishna or Sri Rama alternately?
A: Bhavana  implies khanda  i.e., division.527Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
15th October, 1938
Talk 529. 
In the course of conversation Sri Bhagavan said that Thiru-
jnanasambandar had sung in praise of Sri Arunachala. He also 
mentioned the story briefly as follows:
Jnanasambandar was born in an orthodox family about 1,500 years 
ago. When he was three years old his father took him to the temple in 
Shiyali. He left the boy on the bank of the sacred tank and went in to 
bathe. As he dipped in the water the boy, not finding his father, began 
to cry out. Immediately Siva and Parvati appeared in a vimana . Siva 
told Parvati to feed the boy with her milk. So she drew out milk in a 
cup and handed it to the boy. He drank it and was happy.
The father as he came out of the water saw the boy smiling and with 
streaks of milk round his lips. So he asked the boy what happened 
to him. The boy did not answer. He was threatened and the boy sang 
songs. They were hymns in praise of Siva who appeared before him. 
He sang, "The One with ear-rings... the Robber, who robbed me of 
my mind...."
He thus became one of the most famous bhaktas  and was much sought 
after. He led a vigorous and active life; went on pilgrimage to several 
places in South India. He got married in his sixteenth year. The bride 
and the bridegroom went to have darsan  of God in the local temple 
soon after the marriage ceremonies were over. A large party went 
with them. When they reached the temple the place was a blaze of 
light and the temple was not visible. There was however a passage 
visible in the blaze of light. Jnanasambandar told the people to enter 
the passage. They did so. He himself went round the light with his 
young wife, came to the passage and entered it as the others had done 
earlier. The Light vanished leaving no trace of those who entered it. 
The temple again came into view as usual. Such was the brief but 
very eventful life of the sage.
In one of his tours he had come to Ariyanainallur or Tirukkoilur, eighteen 
miles from Tiruvannamalai. The place is famous for its Siva temple. 
(It was here that Sri Bhagavan had that vision of Light on his way to 528Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Tiruvannamalai in his seventeenth year. Sri Bhagavan did not then 
know that the place was sanctified by the feet of Tirujnanasambandar 
some fifteen centuries ago.)
When the ancient sage was staying in Ariyanainallur an old man 
who carried a flower-basket came to him. The young sage asked the 
old man who he was. The latter replied that he was a servitor of Sri 
Arunachala the God residing as the Hill here.
Sage:  How far is it from here?
The old man:  I walk every day from there to here collecting flowers 
for daily worship. So it is only near.
Sage:  Then I shall go with you to that place.
The old man:  A rare pleasure, indeed, for me!
They went together, with a large crowd following the Sage. After walking 
some distance the Sage wanted to ask how much further the place was. 
But the old man had disappeared in the meantime. Soon after, a gang of 
dacoits waylaid the pilgrims who surrendered all that they had with them. 
They plodded their way and reached their destination. The young Sage 
fell into contemplation. God appeared and said that the dacoits were only 
His followers and that his needs would be met. Accordingly, the group 
of pilgrims found all their wants. The Sage had sung hymns in praise of 
Sri Arunachala. In one of the stanzas, he says:
"You are a dense mass of jnana , capable of removing the ‘I-am-the-
body’ idea from Your devotees! Herds of gazelles, of boars and of 
bears come down Your slopes in the night to search for food on the 
plains. Herds of elephants go from the plains to Your slopes where 
they may rest. So different herds of animals meet on Your slopes."
Sri Bhagavan continued: So this Hill must have been a dense forest 
1,500 years ago. It has since been denuded of the forests by the wood-
cutters, etc., through these several centuries.
The account of Sri Arunachala given by the mysterious old man to 
Jnanasambandar is contained in 300 slokas  in Upamanyu’s Bhakta 
Charita . One of the Archakas of the temple had it with him and showed 
it to Sri Bhagavan on the occasion of the temple suit within the last 
few months. Sri Bhagavan copied the slokas.529Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 530. 
The following is taken from the diary of Annamalai Swami, a good 
devotee of Sri Bhagavan and resident of Sri Ramanasramam:
The Teachings of Sri Ramana Bhagavan.
(1) That man who is active in the world and yet remains desireless, 
without losing sight of his own essential nature, is alone a true man.
This was in answer to the Swami who wanted to retire into a cave for 
practising meditation.
(2) He asked about sannyas . Should not a man renounce everything 
in order that he might get Liberation?
A: Even better than the man who thinks "I have renounced everything" 
is the one who does his duty but does not think "I do this" or "I am 
the doer". Even a sannyasi  who thinks "I am a sannyasi " cannot 
be a true sannyasi , whereas a householder who does not think "I 
am a householder" is truly a sannyasi .
Talk 531. 
Q: One person says one thing one way. Another says the same thing 
in a different way. How is the truth to be ascertained?
A: Each one sees his own Self only, always and everywhere. He finds 
the world and God according to what he is.
A Nayanar went to Kalahasti for the darsan  of God. He saw all the 
people there as Siva and Sakti because he himself was so. Again, 
Dharmaputra considered that the whole world was composed of 
people having some merit or other and that each of them was 
even better than he himself for some reason or other. Whereas 
Duryodhana could not find even a single good person in the world. 
Each reflects his own nature.
Talk 532. 
Q: Is there no way of escape from the miseries of the world?
A: There is only one way and that consists in not losing sight of 
one’s Self under any circumstances.
To enquire "Who am I?" is the only remedy for all the ills of the 
world. It is also perfect bliss.530Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 533. 
Soon after the announcement in the newspapers that Gandhiji was going 
to fast for twenty-one days in Yerwada jail, two young men came to 
Sri Bhagavan; they were very excited. 
They said "Mahatma is now fasting for twenty-one days. We want 
permission from Sri Bhagavan to run up to Yerwada so that we may 
also fast as long as he does. Please permit us. We are in a haste to 
go." Saying so they made ready to rush out. 
Sri Bhagavan smiled and said, "It is a good sign that you have such 
feelings. But what can you do now? Get the strength which Gandhiji 
has already got by his tapasya . You will afterwards succeed."
Talk 534. 
Sri Bhagavan often used to say, " Mowna  is the utmost eloquence. 
Peace is utmost activity. How? Because the person remains in his 
essential nature and so he permeates all the recesses of the Self. 
Thus he can call up any power into play whenever or wherever it is 
necessary. That is the highest siddhi ."
Annamalai asked: Namadev, Tukaram, Tulsidas and others are said 
to have seen Maha Vishnu. How did they see Him?
A: In what manner? Just in the same manner as you see me now and I 
see you here. They would also have seen Vishnu in this way only.
(He records that, on hearing it, his hairs stood on end and an intense 
joy overpowered him.)
Talk 535. 
Once ‘A’ asked:  How can one be worshipful while engaged in daily 
work?
Sri Bhagavan did not reply. Ten minutes passed. A few girls came for darsan  
of Sri Bhagavan. They began to sing and dance. Their song was to the 
effect: "We will churn the milk without losing thought of Krishna."
Sri Bhagavan turned to the Swami and said that there was the reply 
to his question. 
This state is called Bhakti , Yoga and Karma.531Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 536. 
The person soaked in the "I-am-the-body" idea is the greatest sinner 
and he is a suicide. The experience of "I-am-the-Self" is the highest 
virtue. Even a moment’s dhyana  to that effect is enough to destroy 
all the sanchita  Karma. It works like the sun before whom darkness 
is dispelled. If one remains always in dhyana , can any sin, however 
heinous it be, survive his dhyana ?
Talk 537. 
Once Sri Bhagavan said, "Desire constitutes maya , and desirelessness 
is God."
Talk 538. 
‘A’ asked: What is the exact difference between worldly activity and 
dhyana ?
A: There is no difference. It is like naming one and the same thing by 
two different words in two different languages. The crow has two 
eyes but only one iris which is rolled into either eye as it pleases. 
The trunk of an elephant is used for breathing and for drinking 
water. The snake sees and hears with the same organ.
Talk 539. 
When Sri Bhagavan was going up the hill, the Swami asked: Does the 
closing or the opening of the eyes make any difference during dhyana ?
A: If you strike on a wall with a rubber-ball and you stand at a 
distance, the ball rebounds and runs back to you. If you stand near 
the wall, the ball rebounds and runs away from you. Even if the 
eyes are closed, the mind follows thoughts.
Talk 540. 
Once ‘A’ asked: There is more pleasure in dhyana  than in sensual 
enjoyments. Yet the mind runs after the latter and does not seek the 
former. Why is it so?
A: Pleasure or pain are aspects of the mind only. Our essential nature is 
happiness. But we have forgotten the Self and imagine that the body or 
the mind is the Self. It is that wrong identity that gives rise to misery. 532Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
What is to be done? This vasana  is very ancient and has continued for 
innumerable past births. Hence it has grown strong. That must go 
before the essential nature, viz., happiness, asserts itself.
Talk 541. 
A certain visitor asked Sri Bhagavan:
There is so much misery in the world because wicked men abound 
in the world. How can one find happiness here?
A: All are gurus to us. The wicked say by their evil deeds, "Do not 
come near me". The good are always good. So then, all persons 
are like gurus to us.
Talk 542. 
‘A’ asked: I often desire to live in solitude where I can find all I want 
with ease, so that I may devote all my time to meditation only. Is 
such a desire good or bad?
A: Such thoughts will bestow a janma  (reincarnation) for their fulfilment. 
What does it matter where and how you are placed? The essential point 
is that the mind must always remain in its source. There is nothing 
external which is not also internal. The mind is all. If the mind is active 
even solitude becomes like a market place. There is no use closing 
your eyes. Close the mental eye and all will be right. The world is not 
external to you. The good persons will not care to make plans previous 
to their actions. Why so? For God who has sent us into the world has 
His own plan and that will certainly work itself out.
Talk 543. 
Many visitors came on one occasion and they all saluted Sri Bhagavan 
with the single prayer, "Make me a bhakta . Give me moksha ." After 
they left Sri Bhagavan said, thinking aloud: All of them want bhakti  
and moksha . If I say to them, ‘Give yourself to me’ they will not. How 
then can they get what they want?
Talk 544. 
On one occasion a few devotees were discussing among themselves 
the relative merits of some famous bhaktas . They did not agree among 
themselves and referred the matter to Sri Bhagavan. He remained 
silent. The discussion grew hot.533Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Finally Sri Bhagavan said: One cannot know about another nor can 
confer bondage or release on another. Each one desires to become 
famous in the world. It is natural for man. But that desire alone does 
not bring about the end in view. He who is not accepted by God is 
certainly humiliated. He who has surrendered himself, body and mind, 
to God becomes famous all over the world.
Talk 545. 
‘A’ was once badly distracted by sexual thoughts.
He fought against them. He fasted three days and prayed to God so 
that he might be free from such thoughts. Finally, he decided to ask 
Sri Bhagavan about it.
Sri Bhagavan listened to him and remained silent for about two 
minutes. Then He said: Well, the thoughts distracted you and you 
fought against them. That is good. Why do you continue to think of 
them now? Whenever such thoughts arise, consider to whom they 
arise and they will flee away from you.
Talk 546. 
‘A’ asked:  A person does something good but he sometimes suffers 
pain even in his right activities. Another does something wicked 
but is also happy. Why should it be so?
A: Pain or pleasure is the result of past Karma and not of the present 
Karma. Pain and pleasure alternate with each other. One must suffer 
or enjoy them patiently without being carried away by them. One 
must always try to hold on to the Self. When one is active one 
should not care for the results and must not be swayed by the pain 
or pleasure met with occasionally. He who is indifferent to pain or 
pleasure can alone be happy.
Talk 547. 
Q: What is the significance of Guru’s Grace in the attainment of 
liberation?
A: Liberation is not anywhere outside you. It is only within. If a man is 
anxious for Deliverance, the Guru within pulls him in and the Guru 
without pushes him into the Self. This is the Grace of the Guru.534Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 548. 
A visitor asked Sri Bhagavan (in writing) the following questions: 
(1) Were the differences in the world simultaneous, with creation? 
Or are they of later growth? (2) Is the Creator impartial? Then why is 
one born lame, another blind, and so on? (3) Are the eight Dikpalas, 
thirty-three crores of gods and the seven rishis  existent even today?
A: Refer these questions to yourself and the answer will be found.
After a pause, Sri Bhagavan continued: if we first know our Self 
then all other matters will be plain to us. Let us know our Self and 
then enquire concerning the Creator and creation. Without first 
knowing the Self, to seek knowledge of God, etc., is ignorance. 
A man suffering from jaundice sees everything yellow. If he tells 
others that all things are yellow who will accept his statement?
The creation is said to have an origin. How? Like a tree and the 
seed from which it has grown. How was the seed produced? From a 
similar tree. Where is the end to the series of questions? Therefore 
one must know one’s Self before the world is known.
Talk 549. 
Sri Bhagavan often speaks of namaskar  (prostration) in the following 
strain: "This namaskar  was originally meant by the ancient sages to 
serve as a means of surrender to God. The act still prevails but not the 
spirit behind it. The doer of namaskar  intends to deceive the object 
of worship by his act. It is mostly insincere and deceitful. It is meant 
to cover up innumerable sins. Can God be deceived? The man thinks 
that God accepts his namaskar  and that he himself is free to continue 
his old life. They need not come to me. I am not pleased with these 
namaskars . The people should keep their minds clean; instead of that 
they bend themselves or lie prostrate before me. I am not deceived 
by such acts."
Talk 550. 
Somerset Maugham, a well-known English author, was on a visit to 
Sri Bhagavan. He also went to see Maj. Chadwick in his room and 
there he suddenly became unconscious. Maj. Chadwick requested Sri 
Bhagavan to see him. Sri Bhagavan went into the room, took a seat 
and gazed on Mr. Maugham. He regained his senses and saluted Sri 535Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Bhagavan. They remained silent and sat facing each other for nearly 
an hour. The author attempted to ask questions but did not speak. Maj. 
Chadwick encouraged him to ask. Sri Bhagavan said, "All finished. 
Heart-talk is all talk. All talk must end in silence only." They smiled 
and Sri Bhagavan left the room.
Talk 551. 
A man asked Sri Bhagavan: "How is it that Atma vidya  is said to be 
the easiest?"
A: Any other vidya requires a knower, knowledge and the object to 
be known, whereas this does not require any of them. It is the Self. 
Can anything be so obvious as that? Hence it is the easiest. All that 
you need do is to enquire, "Who am I?"
A man’s true name is mukti  (liberation)
Talk 552. 
There are some buildings in the Asramam. They used to have some plan 
which somehow could not be followed in entirety. Therefore ‘A’ and the 
Sarvadhikari did not agree on many details and there used to be trouble 
between them. ‘A’ was once highly disgusted with the state of affairs. He 
asked Sri Bhagavan what could be done under the circumstances.
Sri Bhagavan said: "Which of the buildings was according to a plan 
made by these people here? God has His own plans and all these go 
on according to that. No one need worry as to what happens."
Talk 553. 
The Asramites once asked Sri Bhagavan, "How were we all in our 
previous births? Why do we not know our own past?"
A: God in His mercy has withheld this knowledge from people. 
If they knew that they were virtuous, they will grow proud; 
contrariwise they will be depressed. Both are bad. It is enough 
that one knows the Self.
Talk 554. 
A: Just as a river does not continue its flow after its discharge into the ocean, 
so also a person loses all movements after he merges in the Self.536Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 555. 
Sri Bhagavan once recounted how Kavyakantha Ganapathi Muni 
asked Him: My own opinion is that a man can live on Rs. 3 a month. 
What is Sri Bhagavan’s opinion in the matter?
A: A man can live happily only if he knows that he requires nothing 
wherewith to live.
Talk 556. 
Maj. Chadwick asked Sri Bhagavan one night: The world is said to 
become manifest after the mind becomes manifest. There is no mind 
when I sleep. Is the world not existent to others at that time? Does it 
not show that the world is the product of a universal mind? How then 
shall we say that the world is not material but only dream-like?
A: The world does not tell you that it is of the individual mind or 
of the universal mind. It is only the individual mind that sees the 
world. When this mind disappears the world also disappears.
There was a man who saw in his dream his father who had died thirty 
years earlier. Furthermore he dreamt that he had four more brothers 
and that his father divided his property among them. A quarrel 
ensued, the brothers assaulted the man and he woke up in a fright. 
Then he remembered that he was all alone, he had no brothers and 
the father was dead long ago. His fright gave place to contentment. 
So you see - when we see our Self there is no world, and when we 
lose sight of the Self we get ourselves bound in the world.
Talk 557. 
A visitor asked: "We are advised to concentrate on the spot in the 
forehead between the eyebrows. Is it right?"
A: Everyone is aware, ‘I am’. Leaving aside that awareness one goes about 
in search of God. What is the use of fixing one’s attention between the 
eyebrows? It is mere folly to say that God is between the eyebrows. 
The aim of such advice is to help the mind to concentrate. It is one of 
the forcible methods to check the mind and prevent its dissipation. It is 
forcibly directed into one channel. It is a help to concentration.
But the best means of realisation is the enquiry "Who am I?" The present 
trouble is to the mind and it must be removed by the mind only.537Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: Are there restrictions to be observed in food?
A: Sattva  food taken in moderation.
Q: There are several asanas  mentioned. Which of them is the 
best?
A: Nididhyasana  (one-pointedness of the mind) is the best.
Talk 558. 
A visitor asked: "Sri Bhagavan! When I heard of you, a strong desire 
arose in me to see you. Why should it be so?"
A: The desire arose in the same way as the body arises to the Self.
Q: What is the purpose of life?
A: To seek to know the significance of life is itself the result of good 
karma in past births. Those who do not seek such knowledge are 
simply wasting their lives.
Talk 559. 
A man asked Sri Bhagavan: "Sri Bhagavan can know when I shall 
become a Jnani . Please tell me when it will be."
A: If I am Bhagavan then there is no one apart from me to whom 
jnana  should arise or to whom I should speak. If I am an ordinary 
man like others then I am as ignorant as the rest. Either way your 
question cannot be answered.
Talk 560. 
When Sri Bhagavan was taking His bath a few bhaktas  were around 
Him, speaking to themselves. Then they asked Him about the use of 
ganja  (hashish). Sri Bhagavan had finished His bath by that time. He 
said: "Oh ganja ! The users feel immensely happy when they are under 
its influence. How shall I describe their happiness! They simply shout 
ananda! ananda ..." Saying so, He walked as if tipsy. The bhaktas  
laughed. He appeared as if He stumbled, placed His hands round ‘A’ 
and cried " ananda! ananda! "
‘A’ records that his very being was transformed from that time. He 
had remained an inmate for the past eight years. He further says that 
his mind now remains at peace.538Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 561. 
Q: What is svarupa  (form) and arupa  (formless) of the mind?
A: When you wake up from sleep a light appears, that is the light 
of the Self passing through Mahat tattva . It is called cosmic 
consciousness. That is arupa . The light falls on the ego and is 
reflected therefrom. Then the body and the world are seen. This 
mind is svarupa . The objects appear in the light of this reflected 
consciousness. This light is called jyoti.
21st October, 1938
Talk 562. 
There is a statement in the book Vichara Sangraha  that though a person 
realises the Self once, he cannot, for that simple reason alone, become 
a mukta . He continues to remain a victim of vasanas  (latencies). Sri 
Bhagavan was asked whether the realisation referred to was the same as 
the jnani’ s , and if so why there should be a difference in their effects.
A: The experience is the same. Every person experiences the Self 
consciously or unconsciously. The ajnani’ s  experience is clouded 
by his latencies whereas the jnani’ s  is not so. The jnani’ s experience 
of the Self is therefore distinct and permanent.
A practiser may by long practice gain a glimpse of the Reality. This 
experience may be vivid for the time being. And yet he will be 
distracted by the old vasanas  and so his experience will not avail 
him. Such a man must continue his manana  and nididhyasana  so 
that all the obstacles may be destroyed. He will then be able to 
remain permanently in the Real State.
Q: What is the difference between a man who makes no attempts and 
remains an ajnani , and another who gains a glimpse and returns 
to ajnana ?
A: In the latter case a stimulus is always present to goad him on to 
further efforts until the realisation is perfect.
Q: The Srutis  say: Sakrit vibhatoyam brahmaloka  (This knowledge 
of Brahman shines forth once and forever).
A: They refer to the permanent realisation and not to the glimpse.
Q: How is it possible that a man forgets his very experience and falls 
back into ignorance?539Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Sri Bhagavan illustrated it with the following story:
There was a king who treated his subjects well. One of his ministers 
gained his confidence and misused the influence. All the other 
ministers and officers were adversely affected and they hit upon a 
plan to get rid of him. They instructed the guards not to let the man 
enter the palace. The king noted his absence and enquired after him. 
He was informed that the man was taken ill and could not therefore 
come to the palace. The king deputed his physician to attend on the 
minister. False reports were conveyed to the king that the minister 
was sometimes improving and at other times collapsing. The king 
desired to see the patient. But the pandits said that such an action 
was against dharma . Later the minister was reported to have died. 
The king was very sorry when he heard the news.
The arrogant minister was kept informed of all the happenings by 
spies of his own. He tried to foil the other ministers. He waited for 
the king to come out of the palace so that he might report himself to 
the king. On one occasion he climbed up a tree, hid himself among 
the branches and awaited the king. The king came out that night 
in the palanquin and the man in hiding jumped down in front of 
the palanquin and shouted his identity. The companion of the king 
was equally resourceful. He at once took out a handful of sacred 
ashes ( vibhuti ) from his pocket and scattered it in the air so that 
the king was obliged to close his eyes. The companion shouted 
victory (‘ jai’) to the king and ordered the band to play so that the 
other man’s shout was drowned in the noise. He also ordered the 
palanquin-bearers to move fast and he himself sang incantations to 
keep off evil spirits. The king was thus left under the impression 
that the dead man’s ghost was playing pranks with him.
The disappointed man became desperate and retired into the forest 
for tapasya  (austerities). After a long time the king happened to 
go hunting. He came across the former minister seated in deep 
contemplation. But he hastened away from the spot lest the ghost 
should molest him.
The moral of the story is that even though the man was seen in flesh 
and blood, yet the wrong notion that he was a ghost prevented right 
values being taken. So it is with a forced realisation of the Self.540Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
22nd October, 1938
Talk 563. 
A group of people came on a visit to Sri Bhagavan. One of them 
asked: "How can I keep my mind aright?"
A: A refractory bull is lured to the stall by means of grass. Similarly 
the mind must be lured by good thoughts.
Q: But it does not remain steady.
A: The bull accustomed to stray takes delight in going astray. 
However he must be lured with luscious grass to the stall. Even 
so he will continue to trespass into the neighbour’s fields. He must 
gradually be made to realise that the same kind of good grass can 
be had in his own place. After a time he will remain in the stall 
without straying. Later a time will come when, even if driven 
out of the stall, he will return to the stall without going into the 
neighbouring fields. So also the mind must be trained to take to 
right ways. It will gradually grow accustomed to good ways and 
will not return to wrong ways.
Q: What are the good ways to be shown to the mind?
A: Thought of God.
23rd to 26th October, 1938
Talk 564. 
Pandit Bala Kak Dhar, a jagirdar from Kashmir, had come all the way 
from Srinagar to have darshan  of Sri Bhagavan on Deepavali Day. He 
gave a bundle of papers to Sri Bhagavan containing an account of his life 
and position. His talks with Sri Bhagavan were all of them personal.
One of his questions was: "Now that I have had the darshan  of Sri 
Bhagavan and it is enough for me, may I throw away all the charms, 
tantras  and pujas  into the river?"
A: Daily puja as prescribed in the Dharma sastras  is always good. It is 
for the purification of the mind. Even if one feels oneself too advanced 
to need such puja, still it must be performed for the sake of others. Such 
action will be an example to one’s children and other dependents.541Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 565. 
A gentleman from Mysore asked: How is the mind to be kept in the 
right way?
A: By practice. Give it good thoughts. The mind must be trained in 
good ways.
Q: But it is not steady.
A: The Bhagavad Gita says: Sanaissanairuparamet  (The mind must 
gradually be brought to a standstill); Atma samstham manah krtva  
(making the mind inhere in the Self); Abhyasa-vairagyabhyam (by 
practice and dispassion).
Practice is necessary. Progress will be slow.
Q: What is the Self referred to in Atma samstham  (fixing it in 
the Self)?
A: Do you not know your Self? You certainly exist. Or do you deny 
your existence? The question may arise "Who is this Self", only if 
you do not exist, but you cannot ask anything unless you exist at 
the same time. Your question shows that you exist. Find out who 
you are. That is all.
Q: I have read many books. But my mind does not turn to the Self.
A: Because the Self is not in the books; but it is in you. Reading 
books makes one learned. That is its purpose and it is fulfilled.
Q: What is Atma sakshatkara  (Self-Realisation)?
A: You are the Atma (Self) and that sakshat  (here and now) also. 
Where is the place for kara (accomplishment) in it? This question 
shows that you think you are the non-Self. Or you think that there 
are two selves, the one to realise the other. It is absurd.
That you identify yourself with the gross body lies at the root of 
this question. Well, this question arises now. Did it arise in your 
sleep? Did you not exist then? Certainly you did exist in sleep. 
What is the difference between these two states that the question 
should arise now but not in sleep? Now you think that you are the 
body. You see things around you and you want to see the Self in 
a similar manner. Such is the force of habit. The senses are mere 
instruments of perception. You are the seer. Remain as the seer only. 
What else is there to see? Such is the state in deep sleep. 542Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Therefore this question does not arise then.
Atma sakshatkara  (Self-Realisation) is thus only anatma nirasana  
(giving up the non-Self).
Q: Is there only one Self or are there more selves?
A: This is again due to confusion; you identify the body with the 
Self. You think: "Here I am; here he is, there is another; and so 
on". You find many bodies and think they are so many selves. 
But did you ask in your sleep "I am sleeping here, how many are 
there who are awake?" Does any question arise, for the matter of 
that? Why does it not arise? Because you are only one and there 
are not many.
Q: What is my tattva  (truth)?
A: You are yourself the tattva . Is there a different one to know the 
tattva  of another? How can you exist apart from the tattva ? The 
very fact of your existence makes you ask this question. Your very 
existence is the tattva . Give up the habiliments of the tattva  and 
remain in your essential nature. All the Scriptures tell you only not 
to waste your efforts in non-truth - non- tattva . Give up the non-
tattva . Then tattva  remains always shining pure and single.
Q: I want to know my tattva  and my duties.
A: Know your tattva  first and then you may ask what your duties 
are. You must exist in order to know and do your duty. Realise your 
existence and then enquire of your duties.
26th October, 1938
Talk 566. 
There is a Tamil paper Arya Dharmam . An article on Vairagyam  
appeared in it. Sri Bhagavan read it out in answer to a question. The 
article was briefly as follows: 
vairagya = vi + raga = vigataraga  (non-attachment).
Vairagya  is possible only for the wise. However, it is often misapplied 
by the common folk. For instance, a man often says "I have determined 
not to go to cinema shows." He calls it vairagya . Such wrong 
interpretation of the words and old sayings are not uncommon. 543Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Again we often hear, "Dog seen, stone is not seen; stone seen, dog is 
not seen." It is ordinarily understood to mean that one cannot find a 
brickbat to throw at a stray dog. But this popular saying has a much 
deeper significance. It is based on a story: 
A certain wealthy man’s house was closely guarded. It had also a 
ferocious dog chained to a pillar at the gate. The dog and the chain 
were however very skilful pieces of art. They were sculptured in stone 
but appeared life-like. A pedestrian on the road once took fright at the 
sight of the ferocious animal and hurt himself in his attempt to dodge 
it. A kindly neighbour took pity on him and showed him that it was not 
a living dog. When the man passed by it the next time he admired the 
skill of the sculptor and forgot his old experience. Thus when he found 
it to be a dog, he could not see the stone of which it was made; and 
again when he found it a piece of sculpture he did not see any dog to 
hurt him. Hence the proverb. Compare it with ‘The elephant hides the 
wood and the wood hides the elephant.’ Here it is a wooden elephant.
Atma is always Sat-Chit-Ananda . Of these, the first two are 
experienced in all the states, whereas the last one is said to be 
experienced in sleep only. 
The question arises how the true nature of the Self can be lost in 
the waking and dream states. It is, really speaking, not lost. In sleep 
there is no mind and the Self shines as Itself, whereas in the other 
two states what shines forth is the reflected light of the Self. Ananda  
is felt after the cessation of thoughts in sleep. It is also manifest on 
other occasions as love, joy, etc., priya, moda and pramoda . But they 
are all chitta vrittis  (modes of mind).
When a man is walking in the street his mind is full of fleeting 
thoughts. Suppose he passes a bazaar where some fine mangoes are 
for sale. He likes the mangoes and purchases them. He is next anxious 
to taste them. So he hastens home and eats them and feels happy. 
When the fleeting thoughts give way to the pleasure at the sight of 
mangoes, it is priya , when he gets them as his own, the pleasure is 
moda ; lastly, when he eats them, the pleasure is pramoda . 
All the three kinds of pleasure are owing to the disappearance of 
other thoughts.544Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
3rd to 6th November, 1938
Talk 567. 
Sri Bhagavan explained to Mr. MacIver the first few stanzas of Sad 
Vidya  as follows:
1. The first stanza is the auspicious beginning. Why should the subject-
matter of the piece be brought in here? Can knowledge be other than 
Being? Being is the core - the Heart. How then is the Supreme Being 
to be contemplated and glorified? Only to remain as the Pure Self 
is the auspicious beginning. This speaks of attributeless Brahman 
according to the jnana marga  (method of knowledge).
2. The second stanza is in praise of God with attributes. In the 
foregoing, to be as one Self is mentioned; in the present one, surrender 
to the Lord of all.
Furthermore the second indicates (1) the fit reader (2) the subject-
matter (3) the relationship and (4) the fruit. The fit reader is the one 
who is competent for it. Competence consists in non-attachment to 
the world and desire to be liberated.
All know that they must die some time or other; but they do not think 
deeply of the matter. All have a fear of death: such fear is momentary. 
Why fear death? Because of the ‘I-am-the-body’ idea. All are fully 
aware of the death of the body and its cremation. That the body is lost 
in death is well-known. Owing to the I-am-the-body notion, death 
is feared as being the loss of Oneself. Birth and death pertain to the 
body only; but they are superimposed on the Self, giving rise to the 
delusion that birth and death relate to the Self.
In the effort to overcome birth and death man looks up to the Supreme 
Being to save him. Thus are born faith and devotion to the Lord. How 
to worship Him? The creature is powerless and the Creator is All-
powerful. How to approach Him? To entrust oneself to His care is the 
only thing left for him; total surrender is the only way. Therefore he 
surrenders himself to God. Surrender consists in giving up oneself and 
one’s possessions to the Lord of Mercy. Then what is left over for the 
man? Nothing - neither himself nor his possessions. The body liable 
to be born and to die having been made over to the Lord, the man need  545Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
no longer worry about it. Then birth and death cannot strike terror. The 
cause of fear was the body; it is no longer his; why should he fear now? 
Or where is the identity of the individual to be frightened?
Thus the Self is realised and Bliss results. This is then the subject-matter: 
freedom from misery and gain of Happiness. This is the highest good to be 
gained. Surrender is synonymous with Bliss itself. This is the relationship.
Fruit is to reflect on the subject-matter and gain Knowledge which is 
ever-present, here and now. The stanza ends with "the immortal ones."
3. The five senses mean the subtle functions ( tanmatras ), namely, 
hearing, touch, seeing, taste and smell. Variations of these form the 
whole universe; they vary according to the three gunas as follows:
by tamas  (dullness) the gross elements; 
by rajas  (activity) the instruments for knowing objects; 
by sattva  (clearness) the different kinds of knowledge of the senses; 
also:
by tamas  - the gross objects i.e., the world; 
by rajas  - the vital airs and the karmendriyas  
by sattva  - the sense organs of perception ( jnanendriyas ).
Karmendriyas  are organs of holding, walking, speech, evacuation 
and reproduction.
Now consider the ringing of the bell; the sound is related to hearing; 
the bell is the object, the modification of tamoguna . The rajasic 
tanmatras , changing as the vibrations of sound, extend round the bell, 
then as ether get connected with the ear in order to be felt as sound. 
The knowledge recognising it as sound is the sattva tanmatra .
So also the other senses: Touch ( vayu) - air tanmatra ; form ( rupa) - tejas 
tanmatra ; taste ( ap) - water tanmatra ; smell ( prithvi ) - earth tanmatra .
To understand the tanmatras  as the subtlest particles of matter is not 
right, for it is incomplete. They are only the subtle forms of sound, 
touch, sight, taste and smell, which form the whole components of 
the universe. Such is the creation of the world.
For want of proper terminology these ideas cannot be rightly expressed 
in foreign languages.546Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
4. This stanza says that all are agreed on one point. What is it? The state 
beyond duality and non-duality, beyond subject and object, beyond jiva 
and God, in short, beyond all differences. It is free from ego. "How to 
reach it?" is the question. By giving up the world, it says. Here "the world" 
stands for thoughts relating to it. If such thoughts do not arise, the ego 
does not rise up. There will be no subject nor object. Such is the state.
Talk 568. 
Mr. V . G. Sastri showed a cutting to Sri Bhagavan. It contained some 
prophecy of Sri Rama Tirtha that India would reach the full height 
of her former glory before 1950 AD
Sri Bhagavan said:  Why should we think that India is not already in 
the height of her glory? The glory is in your thought.
7th November, 1938
Talk 569. 
In reply to Sri K. L. Sarma, Sri Bhagavan spoke about Dakshinamurti 
stotra  as follows:
I originally intended to write a commentary on it. Mr. Ranganatha Iyer 
took away my Tamil version of the stotra  and printed it along with 
Appalapattu . He later asked me to enlarge it. I had the introduction 
ready. He saw it and took it away for printing. I did not proceed with 
the work. As for the stotra:
Brahma, the creator, created four sons from his mind. They were Sanaka, 
Sanandana, Sanathkumara and Sanatsujata. They asked their creator 
why they were brought into existence. Brahma said: "I must create the 
universe. But I want to go to do tapas  for realising the Self. You are 
brought forth in order that you may create the universe. That will be 
by multiplying yourselves." They did not like the idea. They wondered 
why they should take the trouble on themselves. It is natural for one to 
seek the source. They therefore wanted to regain their source and be 
happy. So they did not obey the commands of Brahma but left him. They 
desired guidance for realisation of the Self. They were the best equipped 
individuals for Self-Realisation. Guidance should be only from the 
best of Masters. Who could it be but Siva - the yogiraja . Siva appeared 
before them sitting under the sacred banyan tree. Being yogiraja  should 547Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
He practise yoga? He went into samadhi  as He sat; He was in Perfect 
Repose. Silence prevailed. They saw Him. The effect was immediate. 
They fell into samadhi  and their doubts were at an end.
Silence is the true upadesa . It is the perfect upadesa . It is suited only 
for the most advanced seeker. The others are unable to draw full 
inspiration from it. Therefore they require words to explain the Truth. 
But Truth is beyond words. It does not admit of explanation. All that 
is possible to do is only to indicate It. How is that to be done?
The people are under an illusion. If the spell is removed they will realise 
the Truth. They must be told to realise the falsity of the illusion. Then they 
will try to escape its snares. V airagya  will result. They will enquire into 
the Truth, i.e., seek the Self. That will make them abide as the Self. Sri 
Sankara, being the avatar  of Siva, was full of compassion for fallen beings. 
He wanted all of them to realise their blissful Self. He could not reach them 
all with His Silence. So he composed the Dakshinamurti stotra  in the form 
of a hymn so that people might read it and understand the Truth.
What is the nature of the illusion? All are in the grip of enjoyment, 
i.e., bhokta, bhogyam, bhoga . This is due to the wrong notion that 
bhogya vastu  (the objects) are real. The ego, the world and the creator 
are the fundamentals underlying the illusion. If they are known to be 
not apart from the Self there will be no more illusion.
The first four stanzas deal with the world. It is shown to be the same 
as the Master whose Self is that of the seeker also, or the Master to 
whom the seeker surrenders himself. The second four stanzas deal 
with the individual whose Self is shown to be the Self of the Master. 
The ninth stanza deals with Isvara and the tenth with the siddhi  or 
Realisation. Such is the scheme of the stotra .
Which is the darpana  (mirror) here? A mirror, as we know it, is an 
insentient object which reflects light. What corresponds to a mirror in 
an individual? The light of the Self-luminous Self is reflected on the 
Mahatattva . The reflected light is the mind-ether or the pure mind. This 
illumines the vasanas  (latencies) of the individual and hence the sense 
of ‘I’ and ‘this’ arises.
Again, a superficial reading of the slokas  makes one believe that 
the bondage, liberation, etc., are all related to the Master i.e., Sri 
Dakshinamurti. It is absurd. Surrender to Him is meant.548Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 570. 
A visitor:  Nirguna upasana  is said to be difficult and risky. He quoted the 
verse from Sri Bhagavad Gita, avyaktahi  etc. (the manifest, etc.)
A: What is manifest is considered to be unmanifest and doubt is 
created. Can anything be more immediate and intimate than the 
Self? Can anything be more plain?
Q: Saguna upasana  seems easier.
A: Do what is easy for you.
Talk 571. 
Multiplicity of individuals is a moot point with most persons. A jiva 
is only the light reflected on the ego. The person identifies himself 
with the ego and argues that there must be more like him. He is not 
easily convinced of the absurdity of his position. Does a man who 
sees many individuals in his dream persist in believing them to be 
real and enquire after them when he wakes up?
This argument does not convince the disputant.
Again, there is the moon. Let anyone look at her from any place at any 
time; she is the same moon. Everyone knows it. Now suppose that there 
are several receptacles of water reflecting the moon. The images are 
all different from one another and from the moon herself. If one of the 
receptacles falls to pieces, that reflection disappears. Its disappearance 
does not affect the real moon or the other reflections. It is similar with 
an individual attaining Liberation. He alone is liberated.
The sectarian of multiplicity makes this his argument against non-duality. 
"If the Self is single, if one man is liberated, that means that all souls are 
liberated. In practice it is not so. Therefore Advaita  is not correct."
The weakness in the argument is that the reflected light of the Self is 
mistaken for the original Light of the Self. The ego, the world and the 
individuals are all due to the person’s vasanas . When they perish, that 
person’s hallucinations disappear, that is to say one pitcher is broken 
and the relative reflection is at an end.
The fact is that the Self is never bound. There can therefore be no 
Release for It. All the troubles are for the ego only.549Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
10th November, 1938
A question was asked why it was wrong to say that there is a 
multiplicity of jivas . Jivas  are certainly many. For a jiva is only the 
ego and forms the reflected light of the Self. Multiplicity of selves 
may be wrong but not of jivas .
A: Jiva is called so because he sees the world. A dreamer sees many 
jivas  in a dream but all of them are not real. The dreamer alone 
exists and he sees all. So it is with the individual and the world. 
There is the creed of only one Self which is also called the creed of 
only one jiva. It says that the jiva is only one who sees the whole 
world and the jivas  therein.
Q: Then jiva means the Self here.
A: So it is. But the Self is not a seer. But here he is said to see the 
world. So he is differentiated as the Jiva.
Talk 572. 
Q: Of what use is the fear of death which is common to all?
A: True, it is common to all. Such fear serves no useful purpose 
because being overpowered by the latent tendencies of the mind 
the man dies a natural death. It does not lead him to non-attachment 
and he cannot investigate the matter.
Q: How then are you giving the same instruction without distinction 
to visitors?
A: What do I say? The ego in each one must die. Let him reflect 
on it. Is there this ego or is there not? By repeated reflection one 
becomes more and more fit.
11th November, 1938
Talk 573. 
Mr. Ranganatha Ayyar, a devotee of fourteen years’ standing, is on 
a visit here. He asked: How long is the interval between one’s death 
and reincarnation?
A: It may be long or short. But a Jnani  does not have any such 
changes; he merges into the universal Being, so says the 
Brihadaranyaka Upanishad . 550Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Some say that those who after death pass into the path of light 
are not reborn, whereas those who after death take the path of 
darkness are reborn after they have enjoyed the fruits of karma 
in their subtle bodies.
If one’s merits and demerits are equal, they are directly reborn here. 
Merits outweighing demerits, the subtle bodies go to heavens and 
are then reborn here; demerits outweighing merits, they go to hells 
and are afterwards reborn here.
A yogabrashta  is said to fare in the same manner. All these are 
described in the sastras . But in fact, there is neither birth nor death. 
One remains only as what one really is. This is the only Truth.
Talk 574. 
Q: What are asanas  (postures or seats)? Are they necessary?
A: Many asanas  with their effects are mentioned in the Yoga sastras . 
The seats are the tiger-skin, grass, etc.; the postures are the ‘lotus 
posture’, the ‘easy posture’ and so on. 
Why all these - only to know oneself? "I am the body; the body 
requires a seat; it is the earth," thinking thus, he seeks seats. But in 
sleep did he think of the support or the bed: the bed on the cot and the 
cot on the earth? Did he not exist in sleep too? How was he then?
The truth is - Being the Self, the ego rising up, confusing himself 
with the body, mistaking the world to be real, differentiating the 
objects, covered by the ignorance of the ‘I’-conceit, he thinks wildly 
and also looks for seats. He does not understand that he himself is 
the Centre of all and thus forms the basis for all.
If questioned he talks of the effects of seats and footwear in terms 
of gravitation, magnetism and so on. Without them he imagines 
that the power of his austerities will dwindle away.
Wherefrom do they all derive their power? He looks to the effects, 
seeks their causes and imagines them to be the power of seats and of 
footwear. A stone thrown up falls back to the ground. Why? Owing to 
the gravitation, says he. Well - are all these different from his thoughts? 
Think and say if the stone, the earth and gravity are different from his 
thoughts. They are all in his mind only. He is the Power and the wielder 
of it. He is the Centre of all and their support. He is also the Seat.551Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
The seat is meant to make him sit firm. Where and how can he 
remain firm except in his own real state? This is the Seat.
Talk 575. 
Q: How to conquer desire, anger, etc.?
A: Desire or lust, anger, etc., give you pain. Why? Because of the ‘I’-
conceit; this ‘I’-conceit is from ignorance; ignorance from differentiation; 
differentiation from the notion of the reality of the world and this again 
from ‘I-am-the-body’ idea. The last can be only after the rise of the ego. 
The ego not arising, the whole chain of mishaps disappears. Therefore 
prevent the rise of the ego. This can be done by remaining in your own 
real nature; then lust, anger, etc., are conquered.
Q: So then all these have their root in ignorance.
A: Quite so. Ignorance gives rise to error, error to conceit, etc. What 
is ignorance? Can it be of Pure Brahman which is only the Self or 
Pure Knowledge? Only let the questioner know his own Self, i.e., be 
the Knowledge; this question will not arise. Because of ignorance 
he raises the question. Such ignorance is of the questioner and not 
of the Self. The sun seen, no darkness persists.
There is hoarded wealth in an iron safe. The man says it is his 
own; the safe does not say so. It is the ownership-conceit that is 
responsible for the claim.
Nothing is independent of the Self, not even ignorance; for 
ignorance is only the power of the Self, remaining there without 
affecting It. However it affects the ‘I’-conceit, i.e., the jiva. 
Therefore ignorance is of the jiva.
How? The man says, "I do not know myself." Are there then two 
selves - one the subject and the other the object? He cannot admit 
it. Is then ignorance at an end for him? No. The rise of the ego is 
itself the ignorance and nothing more.
Talk 576. 
Sutra Bhashya:—
The sutras  are meant to elucidate and establish the meanings of the 
texts. The commentaries try to do so by bringing in the opponent’s 
views, refuting them and arriving at conclusions after long discussions; 
there are also differences of opinion in the same school of thought; 552Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
again protagonists and antagonists. Also different schools of thought 
interpret the same text in different ways and arrive at different 
conclusions, contrary to each other.
How then is the purpose of the sutras  served?
15th November, 1938
Talk 577.
Pure Being Supreme Being (This shines forth)
Pure Mind - Sattva mind  -Isvara
Rajas
the ego (Aham)Tamas
the world (Idam)
All these are Vedantic terminolo gy
Talk 578. 
Coming here, some people do not ask about themselves. They ask: 
"Does the sage, liberated while alive ( Jivanmukta ), see the world? Is 
he affected by Karma? 
What is liberation after being disembodied? Is one liberated only 
after being disembodied or even while alive in the body? Should 
the body of the sage resolve itself in light or disappear from view 
in any other manner? Can he be liberated though the body is left 
behind as a corpse?"
Their questions are endless. Why worry oneself in so many ways? 
Does liberation consist in knowing these?
Therefore I say to them, "Leave liberation alone. Is there bondage? 
Know this. See yourself first and foremost."
Talk 579. 
Avarana  (veiling) does not hide the jiva in entirety; he knows that he is; 
only he does not know who he is. He sees the world; but not that it is 
only Brahman. It is light in darkness (or knowledge in ignorance).553Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
In a cinema show the room is first darkened, artificial light is 
introduced; only in this light are the pictures projected.
For differentiation a reflected light is thus necessary. A sleeper dreams, 
he is not out of sleep: only in the darkness or ignorance of sleep can 
he see the unreal dream objects.
Similarly the darkness of ignorance gives rise to the knowledge of 
the perceptions of the world.
Ajnana
Ignorance
DarknessAvaran a
Veiling
This veiling is a characteristic of ignorance; it is not of the Self: it 
cannot affect the Self in any manner; it can veil only the jiva. 
The ego is insentient: united with the light from the Self, it is 
called  jiva. But the ego and the light cannot be seen distinct from 
each other; they are always united together. The mixed product is 
the jiva, the root of all differentiation. All these are spoken of to 
satisfy the questioners.
Sahasrara
(cranium)
Kantham
(throat)
Hridaya
(Heart)
Nabhi
(navel)
Mula
(Solar plexus)Ether = Jnana
Air = Mind
Light = Intellect
Water = Memor y
Earth = The Ego}
}
}
}
}Such is the representation 
of the subtle body. The 
senses and other organs 
act separately, whereas 
the inner organs and the 
vital airs can work only in 
unison. Therefore the former 
are vyashti (individualistic) 
and the latter are samashti  
(collective).554Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Avarana  (veiling) gives rise to two kinds of veiling.
Avaran a
within
veils drik (the seer)
anddrisya  (the seen)outside
veils the
Lord ’s Creatio n
‘I-am-the-body idea’ Multiplicity
Jiva is not independent of Isvara ; nor ignorance of maya . Only on waking 
up from sleep, the man perceives the body and the world, but not in sleep. 
On the strength of the present knowledge he understands that he remained 
in deep sleep also. Therefore in sleep jiva must be concluded to be in pure 
state in which the body and the world are not perceived.
Q: Is not jiva the reflected light, the ‘I-thought’?
A: He is also a jiva; before it also he is jiva; the one of them is 
related to the other as cause and effect. The sleeper jiva cannot be 
independent of Isvara . On waking he says "I am the body". If all 
the worlds together form virat , the body is a tiny dot in it. Thus 
the body is in and of virat . What belongs to the jiva then? Only the 
conceit makes him claim the body as himself but not the others. 
He cannot be independent of virat . Similarly,
(1) Isvara 
(Causal Cosmic Being) → Prajna (individual being in deep 
sleep)
(2) Hiranyagarbha  
(Causal  Subtle  Being) → Taijasa (individual subtle being)  
(3) Virat 
(Causal gross Being) → Visva (individual gross being)
(4) Maya  
(Causal Ignorance adjunct to Isvara ) →  Ignorance adjunct to 
Jiva 
(5) Brahman 
(Cause) →  Jiva (Effect) 
They say that all these five groups should be unified. This they call 
the unity of the Five. All these are only polemics!555Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
17th November, 1938
Talk 580. 
A party from Rajkot came in a bus. They consisted of four chiefs and 
four ladies with attendants and a bodyguard. They arrived at 11 a.m. 
After lunch in their room, they had a short conversation at 12-45 p.m. 
and left at 1-5 p.m.
One of them said:  Here is the mother of the Thakore Saheb. We have 
come a long distance for the darshan  of Sri Maharshi. Will He 
kindly give us some instructions?
Sri Bhagavan smiled and answered:  Good that they have come such 
a long distance for the sake of darshan . It is enough that they have 
said it. What is there for me to say? (Lunch bell).
At 12-45 p.m.
Q: Is a Jnani  different from a yogi? What is the difference?
A: Srimad Bhagavad Gita says that a Jnani  is the true yogi and also 
a true bhakta . Yoga is only a sadhana  and jnana  is the siddhi .
Q: Is yoga necessary?
A: It is a sadhana . It will not be necessary after jnana  is attained. 
All the sadhanas  are called yogas, e.g., Karma yoga; Bhakti  yoga; 
Jnana  yoga; Ashtanga  yoga. What is yoga? Yoga means ‘union’. 
Yoga is possible only when there is ‘viyoga ’ (separation). The 
person is now under the delusion of viyoga . This delusion must 
be removed. The method of removing it is called yoga.
Q: Which method is the best?
A: It depends upon the temperament of the individual. Every person 
is born with the samskaras  of past lives. One of the methods will be 
found easy for one person and another method for another. There 
is no definiteness about it.
Q: How is one to meditate?
A: What is meditation? It is commonly understood to be concentration 
on a single thought. Other thoughts are kept out at that time. The 
single thought also must vanish at the right time. Thought-free 
consciousness is the goal.
Q: How is the ego to be got rid of?556Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: The ego must be held in order to get rid of it. Hold it first and 
the rest will be easy.
Q: How is that to be held?
A: Do you mean to say that there is one ego to hold another ego or 
to eliminate the other? Are there two egos?
Q: How shall I pray to God?
A: There-must be ‘I’ who prays to God. ‘I’ is certainly immediate 
and intimate, whereas God is not thought so. Find out that which 
is more intimate and then the other may be ascertained and prayed 
to if necessary.
19th November, 1938
Talk 581. 
When a child held something to be offered to Sri Bhagavan by the 
parents, they cajoled the child to offer it to Sri Bhagavan. The child 
did so gladly. Sri Bhagavan remarked: Look at this! When the child 
can give a thing away to Jeja it is tyaga . ( Jeja -God). See what 
influence Jeja has on children also! Every gift implies unselfishness. 
That is the whole content of nishkama  Karma (unselfish action). It 
means true renunciation. If the giving nature is developed it becomes 
tyaga . If anything is willingly given away it is a delight to the giver 
and to the receiver. If the same is stolen it is misery to both. Dana, 
dharma, nishkama  Karma are all tyaga  only. When ‘mine’ is given 
up it is chitta suddhi  (purified mind). When ‘I’ is given up it is jnana . 
When the nature to give away is developed it results in jnana .
Again a little later, a young boy came all alone, unescorted by his parents. 
He had come from Chengam in a bus. Sri Bhagavan remarked, "The boy 
has left his parents to come here. This is also an instance of tyaga ."
21st. 22nd November, 1938
Talk 582. 
To an Andhra gentleman Sri Bhagavan said:  If one goes on wanting, one’s 
wants cannot be fulfilled. Whereas if one remains desireless anything will 
be forthcoming. We are not in the wife, children, profession, etc.; but they 
are in us; they appear and disappear according to one’s prarabdha .557Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
The mind remaining still is samadhi , no matter whether the world 
is perceived or not.
Environment, time and objects are all in me. How can they be 
independent of me? They may change, but I remain unchanging, 
always the same. The objects can be differentiated by means of 
their names and forms, whereas each one’s name is only one and 
that is ‘I’. Ask anyone, he says ‘I’ and speaks of himself as ‘I’, 
even if He is Isvara . His name too is ‘I’ only.
So also of a locality. As long as I am identified with the body so 
long a locality is distinguishable; otherwise not. Am I the body? 
Does the body announce itself as ‘I’?
Clearly all these are in me. All these wiped out entirely, the residual 
Peace is ‘I’. This is samadhi , this is ‘I’.
Talk 583. 
Mr. V. Ganapati Sastri showed Sri Bhagavan a letter from a Spanish lady, 
Mercedes De Acosta, saying she would be coming here the next day. Sri 
Bhagavan remarked: "See the trouble to so many because I am here."
23rd November, 1938
REMINISCENCE
Talk 584. 
A certain visitor began to pull the pankah . Sri Bhagavan said: "Because it is cold, 
they have placed fire by my side. Why should the pankah  be pulled?"
Then he continued: "On a cold morning, when I was in Virupaksha 
cave, I was sitting in the open. I was feeling cold. People used to 
come, see me and go back. A group of Andhra visitors had come. I 
did not notice what they were doing. They were behind me. Suddenly 
a noise ‘ tak’ - and water over my head! I shivered with cold. I looked 
back. They had broken a coconut and poured the water on me. They 
thought that it was worship. They took me for a stone image."
Talk 585. 
Sri Bhagavan said that this town is peculiar in that there are nine roads 
leading to it, not counting the railroad; navadware pure dehe  (in the 
body - the city of nine gates).558Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 586. 
An Andhra visitor asked:  How is one to be quiet? It is so difficult to be so. 
Should we practise yoga for it? Or is there any other means for it?
A: What is not difficult looks difficult. A man is prone to wander 
about. He is told to stay quiet at home, but finds it difficult to do 
so because he wants to wander about.
Q: Is there any particular upasana  which is more efficacious than 
others?
A: All upasanas  are equally efficacious. But each one takes easily 
to one kind of upasana  which suits his previous vasanas .
24th November, 1938
Talk 587. 
The Spanish lady and her lady friend have come. They asked: You say 
the Heart is on the right. Can you explain how it is so?
Sri Bhagavan handed over the extract from the Psychological Review  
of Philadelphia for her to read. He also added. The Heart is the place 
wherefrom the ‘I-thought’ arises.
Q: So you mean the spiritual Heart as distinguished from the physical 
heart?
A: Yes. It is explained in Ch. V of Sri Ramana Gita .
Q: Is there any stage when one might feel the Heart?
A: It is within the experience of everyone. Everyone touches the 
right side of his chest when he says ‘I’.
Both the ladies kneeled before Sri Bhagavan one after another and 
asked for blessings. Then they left for Pondicherry on their way 
to Colombo.
25th November, 1938
Talk 588. 
To an Andhra seeker, Sri Bhagavan said: Sannyasa  is mentioned for 
one who is fit. It consists in renunciation not of material objects but 
of attachment to them. Sannyasa  can be practised by anyone even at 
home. Only one must be fit for it. Again.559Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A Kutichaka  is one who takes sannyasa  and lives in a hermitage;
A Bahudaka  is one who takes sannyasa  and goes to places of 
pilgrimage;
A Hamsa  is an upasaka sannyasi ;
A Paramahamsa  is a realised sannyasi .
27th November, 1938
Talk 589. 
Somasundara Swami, a long standing devotee, asked: There is akasa  in a 
mirror and it reflects images. How are these contained in the mirror?
A: Objects remain in space. Objects and space are together reflected 
in the mirror. Just as the things are found in space, so they are in 
the reflection also. The mirror is itself thin. How can these objects 
be contained in its compass?
Q: How does the akasa  in a pot illustrate this point?
A: There is no reflection in the akasa  of the pot. The reflection is only in 
the water in it. Keeping several pots filled with water in a tank, the akasa  
is reflected equally in the water in each of the pots and in the water of the 
tank. Similarly the whole universe is reflected in each individual.
Q: The mouths of the pots must be above the surface of the water 
in the tank.
A: Yes, it must be so. Otherwise can the pots be recognised if sunk 
in the tank?
Q: How does the reflection take place there?
A: Pure ether cannot take reflections; only the ether of water can do 
so. Glass cannot reflect objects; only a plate of glass with an opaque 
lining on its back can reflect the objects in front of it. Similarly Pure 
Knowledge does not contain objects in it nor reflect objects. Only 
with the limiting adjunct, the mind, it reflects the world. 
Neither in samadhi  nor in deep sleep does the world remain. There 
cannot be illusion either in bright light or in total darkness. Only 
in dim light a rope seems a snake. Similarly Pure Consciousness 
remains light only; it is pure knowledge. The mind rising from it 
is deluded that the objects remain apart.
Q: So then the mind is the mirror.560Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: Mind - mind what is it? It is a mixture of Chit (intelligence) and 
sankalpas  (thoughts). Therefore it forms all these - the mirror, light, 
darkness and the reflections.
Q: But I do not see it.
A: Chidakasa  (chit-ether) is Pure Knowledge only, It is the source 
of mind. Just at the moment of rising up, the mind is only light; 
only afterwards the thought "I am this" rises up; this ‘I-thought’ 
forms the jiva and the world. 
The first light is the pure mind, the mind ether or Isvara . Its modes 
manifest as objects. Because it contains all these objects within 
itself it is called the mind-ether. Why ether? Like ether containing 
objects it contains the thoughts, therefore it is the mind-ether .
Again, just as the physical ether though accommodating all the gross objects 
(the whole universe) is itself the content of the mind-ether, so also the latter 
is itself the content of Chit-ether. The last one is Chit Itself. There are no 
things contained in it. It remains as Pure Knowledge only.
Q: Why call it ether? Physical ether is not sentient.
A: Ether denotes not only the insentient physical ether but also Pure 
Knowledge. Knowledge does not consist in knowing objects: this is 
relative knowledge. But Knowledge in its purity remains all alone, 
One, unique, transcendent Light!
Q: Well - should we be imagining it in our meditation?
A: Why imagine? We can think of another only if we are independent 
of it, whereas here we cannot remain independent of this Pure 
Knowledge. Rather, only IT is! How can It be imagined to be so 
and so or such and such?
Q: How are we to proceed?
A: Only get rid of the non-self.
Q: It looks all right now; but later it is all forgotten.
A: Your forgetfulness implies knowledge, for you know you forgot; 
otherwise how can you speak of forgetting it? So forgetfulness also 
is Chit-akasa  (Chit-ether) only.
Q: How then is it not clear to me?
A: Chit is knowledge pure and simple. The mind proceeds from it; 
the mind is made up of thoughts. Darkness or ignorance interposing. 561Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Pure Knowledge seems different from what It really is; the same 
is seen as ‘I’ and the ‘world’ which are full of desire, attachment, 
hatred, etc. Therefore desire, etc., are said to veil the Reality.
Q: How to be rid of thoughts? Is it as said in the Atma-Vidya  - the 
eye of the mental eye, etc.?
A: There the mind stands for ether, Being ( sat); and the eye for 
knowledge ( chit); both sat and chit together form the universe.
Q: How to realise the same?
A: As pointed out in the Atma Vidya  "being the eye of the mental eye, 
the ether of the mental ether.....", meaning, the Knowledge behind 
the relative knowledge, the Chit-Ether containing the mental ether, 
remains as the Only One always shining bright.
Q: Still I do not understand. How shall I realise it?
A: It is also said, "Remain free from thoughts," and "It is realised 
only in the mind drawn within." Therefore, the mind made free 
from thoughts, and merged in the Heart. is Chit Itself.
Q: Is the aforesaid mental ether Isvara  or Hiranyagarbha ?
A: Can the latter remain independent of the former? The same is 
Isvara  and Hiranyagarbha .
Q: How do they differ from each other?
A: The Immanent Being is called Isvara .
Q: Is not the Immanent Being Chit-akasa  only?
A: Immanence can only be with Maya . It is the Knowledge of Being 
along with Maya ; from this subtle conceit Hiranyagarbha ; from 
the latter the gross conceit virat . Chit-atma  is Pure Being only.
13th December, 1938
Talk 590. 
Two ladies, one Swiss and the other French, visited Maharshi. The 
younger of the ladies asked several questions, of which the most important 
was: "Brahman is the same as jiva. If the jiva be under illusion it amounts 
to saying that Brahman is under illusion. How is that possible?"
A: If Brahman be under illusion and wants disillusionment let Him 
raise the question.562Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
14th December, 1938
Talk 591. 
Q: Seekers who are in immediate proximity of the Master can get 
grace by darsana, sparsana , etc. (look, touch, etc.). But how does 
one get the same grace when the person is at a distance?
A: By yoga drishti (yogic look).
Mr. Chopra, a Punjabi employed in Singapore, is on a visit here 
and raised a few questions.
Q: What is the efficacy of the name?
Sri Bhagavan read out the extract from the Vision . It was a 
translation of Namdev’s stanzas.
Q: How does the name help Realisation?
A: The original name is always going on spontaneously without any 
effort on the part of the individual. That name is aham - ‘I’. But 
when it becomes manifest it manifests as ahamkara  - the ego. The 
oral repetition of nama  leads one to mental repetition which finally 
resolves itself into the eternal vibration.
Q: But these are all mental or physical.
A: The mind or the mouth cannot act without the Self. Tukaram, the 
great Maharashtra Saint, used to remain in samadhi  in the day and 
sing and dance at night with large crowds of people. He always 
used to utter the name of Sri Rama. 
Once he was answering calls of nature and also saying "Ram, 
Ram". An orthodox priest was shocked at the unholy mention of 
the sacred name and so reprimanded him and ordered him to be 
silent when he answered calls of nature. 
Tukaram said, "All right!" and remained mute. But at once 
there arose the name of Rama from every pore of Tukaram and 
the priest was horrified by the din. He then prayed to Tukaram 
"Restrictions are only for the common people and not for saints 
like you."
Q: It is said that Sri Ramakrishna saw life in the image of Kali which 
he worshipped. Can it be true?563Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: The life was perceptible to Sri Ramakrishna and not to all. The 
vital force was due to himself. It was his own vital force which 
manifested as if it were outside and drew him in. Were the image 
full of life it must have been found so by all. But everything is full 
of life. That is the fact. Many devotees have had experiences similar 
to those of Sri Ramakrishna.
Q: How can there be life in stone? It is unconscious. 
A: The whole universe is full of life. You say the stone is unconscious. 
It is your self-consciousness which now speaks of unconsciousness. 
When a person wants to see if there is an article in a dark room 
he takes a lamp to look for it. The light is useful for detecting the 
presence and the absence of the thing. Consciousness is necessary 
for discovering if a thing is conscious or not. If a man remains in 
a dark room one need not take a lamp to find him. If called, he 
answers. He does not require a lamp to announce his presence. 
Consciousness is thus self-shining.
Now you say you were unconscious in sleep and self-conscious in the 
wakeful state. Which is the Reality? The Reality must be continuous 
and eternal. Neither the unconsciousness nor the self-consciousness of 
the present is the Reality. But you admit your existence all through. The 
pure Being is the reality. The others are mere associations. The pure 
Being cannot be otherwise than consciousness. Otherwise you cannot 
say that you exist. Therefore consciousness is the reality. When that 
consciousness is associated with upadhis  you speak of self-consciousness, 
unconsciousness, sub-consciousness, super-consciousness, human-
consciousness, dog-consciousness, tree-consciousness and so on. The 
unaltering common factor in all of them is consciousness.
Therefore the stone is as much unconscious as you are in sleep. Is 
that totally devoid of consciousness?
Q: But a dog-consciousness is different from my consciousness. I 
cannot read the Bible to the dog. The tree again does not move 
whereas I move and act.
A: Call the tree a standing man; and call the man a moving tree.
An American gentleman who also took part in the conversation would 
not allow Sri Bhagavan to explain and so it stopped here.564Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 592. 
The Punjabi gentleman referred to the popular belief of a worm being 
metamorphosed to a wasp ( bhramarakita nyaya ) which Sri Bhagavan 
had mentioned to the ladies in the course of conversation yesterday. 
Sri Bhagavan recalled some interesting reminiscences:
1. "I had previously heard of this bhramarakita nyaya . After I came to 
Tiruvannamalai, when I was staying in Gurumoortham, I noticed a red 
wasp construct a hive in which it placed five or six grubs and then flew 
away. My curiosity was roused and I wanted to test the truth of the oft-
quoted nyaya . I waited some days, maybe ten days. I then tapped the 
hive. It broke and there I found that all the five or six grubs had united 
together and taken the shape of a wasp, but it was white.
2. Later when I was in Virupaksha Cave, I saw a red wasp construct 
five or six hives in each of which it placed five or six grubs and flew 
away. After about ten days, a black beetle, smaller than the wasp, 
buzzed round the hives and closed each of then, with a little black 
mud and flew away. I was wondering at the intrusion of the beetle 
on the hive of the wasp. I waited a few days and then gently opened 
one of the hives. Five or six black bodies came out and each of them 
was a black beetle. I thought it strange.
3. Again when I was in Pachyamman Temple, I saw a red wasp 
constructing five or six hives on a pillar in the temple. It placed 
five or six grubs in each of them and buzzed away. I watched it for 
several days. The wasp did not return. There was no black beetle also. 
After about fifteen days, I opened one of the hives. All the grubs had 
united into a white mass of wasp-like form. It dropped down and was 
stunned by the fall. After a few minutes, it began to crawl. Its colour 
was gradually changing. In a short time, there were two little specks 
on its sides which grew into wings as I watched and the full-grown 
wasp flew away from the ground.
4. When I was in the Mango-Tree Cave I noticed a caterpillar-like worm 
crawl up a wall. It stopped in one place and fixed two spots which it 
later connected up with a thin filament from its body. It held the filament 
with its mouth and rested its tail end on the wall. It remained so several 
days. I was watching it. It shrivelled up in course of time. I wondered if 565Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
there was life in it. So I gently tickled it with a thin stalk. There was no 
life within. I left it there. But in a few days more I found that there was 
only a thin dry skin left behind and the inner thing had flown away.
5. I had also seen the flies carrying tiny grubs on their legs which they 
deposited on offal. The grubs later flew away as flies."
Q: They may be eggs laid by the flies.
A: But they move and struggle and then shape themselves as flies.
Talk 593. 
Sri Bhagavan mentioned another interesting reminiscence. "When I 
was a boy I had seen the fishermen divert water from its main course 
and keep a pot through which the diverted water flowed. The artificial 
way was spread with tobacco stems. Strangely enough the larger fishes 
always took the new way and fell into the pot. The fishermen who 
were simply sitting quiet used to take the fish out from the pot and 
throw them into their baskets. I thought at the time it was strange. 
Later, when I was staying here I heard some man recite a piece from 
Thayumanavar which mentioned the same trick of the fishermen."
15th December, 1938
Talk 594. 
The Spanish lady, Madam Mercedes De Acorta, has written a letter to 
Mr. Hague, the American mining engineer who is here as a temporary 
resident for the last two months. She has raised a few questions there: 
"If the individual Self merges into the universal Self, how can one 
pray to God for the uplift of humanity?" The question seems to be 
common among the thinkers of the West.
Sri Bhagavan said:  They pray to God and finish with "Thy Will be 
done!" If His Will be done why do they pray at all? It is true that the 
Divine Will prevails at all times and under all circumstances. The 
individuals cannot act of their own accord. Recognise the force of 
the Divine Will and keep quiet. Each one is looked after by God. 
He has created all. You are one among 2,000 millions. When He 
looks after so many will He omit you? Even common sense dictates 
that one should abide by His Will.566Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Again there is no need to let Him know your needs. He knows them 
Himself and will look after them.
Still more, why do you pray? Because you are helpless yourself 
and you want the Higher Power to help you. Well, does not your 
Creator and Protector know your weakness? Should you parade 
your weakness in order to make Him know it?
Q: But God helps those who help themselves.
A: Certainly. Help yourself and that is itself according to God’s Will. 
Every action is prompted by Him only. As for prayer for the sake 
of others, it looks so unselfish on the surface of it. But analyse 
the feeling and you will detect selfishness there also. You desire 
others’ happiness so that you may be happy. Or you want the credit 
for having interceded on others’ behalf. God does not require an 
intermediary. Mind your business and all will be well.
Q: Does not God work His Will through some chosen person?
A: God is in all and works through all. But His presence is better 
recognised in purified minds. The pure ones reflect God’s actions 
more clearly than the impure minds. Therefore people say that they 
are the chosen ones. But the ‘chosen’ man does not himself say so. 
If he thinks that he is the intermediary then it is clear that he retains 
his individuality and that there is no complete surrender.
Q: Are not the Brahmins considered to be the priests or intermediaries 
between God and others?
A: Yes. But who is a Brahmin? A Brahmin is one who has realised 
Brahman. Such a one has no sense of individuality in him. He 
cannot think that he acts as an intermediary.
Again, as for prayer, a realised man does not see others as different 
from oneself. How can he pray at all, and to whom and for what? 
His very presence is the consummation of happiness for all. So long 
as you think that there are others different from you, you pray for 
them. But the sense of separateness is ignorance. This ignorance 
is again the cause of feeling helplessness. You know that you are 
weak and helpless. How then can you help others? If you say, "By 
prayer to God", God knows His business and does not require your 
intercession for others.567Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Help yourself so that you may become strong. That is done by 
complete surrender. That means you offer yourself to Him. So you 
cannot retain your individuality after surrender. You then abide by 
His Will. Thus Silence is the Highest of all achievements.
Silence is the ocean in which all the rivers of all the religions 
discharge themselves. So says Thayumanavar. He also adds that 
the Vedic religion is the only one which combines both philosophy 
and religion.
16th December, 1938
Talk 595. 
The two lady visitors returned in the morning and the younger one asked:
"Is the experience of the Highest State the same to all? Or is there 
any difference?"
A: The Highest State is the same and the experience is also the same.
Q: But I find some difference in the interpretations put on the Highest 
Truth.
A: The interpretations are made with the mind. The minds are 
different and so the interpretations are different.
Q: I mean to ask if the seers express themselves differently?
A: The expressions may differ according to the nature of the seekers. 
They are meant to guide the seekers.
One seer speaks in the terms of Christianity, another in those of Islam, 
a third of Buddhism, etc. Is that due to their upbringing?
A: Whatever may be their upbringing, their experience is the same. 
But the modes of expression differ according to circumstances.
Talk 596. 
A visitor asked:  Sri Bhagavan said last night that God is guiding us. 
Then why should we make an effort to do anything?
A: Who asks you to do so? If there was that faith in the guidance of 
God this question would not have arisen.
Q: The fact is that God guides us. Then what is the use of these 
instructions to people?568Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: They are for those who seek instructions. If you are firm in your 
belief in the guidance of God, stick to it, and do not concern yourself 
with what happens around you. 
Furthermore, there may be happiness or misery. Be equally 
indifferent to both and abide in the faith of God. That will be so 
only when one’s faith is strong that God looks after all of us.
Mr. Chopra asked: "How shall I secure that firm faith?"
A: Exactly. It is for such as these who want instructions. There are 
persons who seek freedom from misery. They are told that God 
guides all and so there need not be any concern about what happens. 
If they are of the best type they at once believe it and firmly abide 
by faith in God.
But there are others who are not so easily convinced of the truth of 
the bare statement. They ask: "Who is God? What is His nature? 
Where is He? How can He be realised?" and so on. 
In order to satisfy them intellectual discussion is found necessary. 
Statements are made, their pros and cons are argued, and the truth 
is thus made clear to the intellect.
When the matter is understood intellectually the earnest seeker 
begins to apply it practically. He argues at every moment, "For 
whom are these thoughts? Who am I?" and so forth, until he is 
well-established in the conviction that a Higher Power guides us. 
That is firmness of faith. Then all his doubts are cleared and he 
needs no further instructions.
Q: We also have faith in God.
A: If it had been firm no questions would have arisen. The person 
will remain perfectly happy in his Faith in the Omnipotent.
Q: Is the enquiry into the Self the same as the above mentioned faith?
A: The enquiry into the Self is inclusive of all, faith, devotion, jnana , 
yoga and all.
Q: A man sometimes finds that the physical body does not permit 
steady meditation. Should he practise yoga for training the body 
for the purpose?569Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: It is according to one’s samskaras  (predispositions). One man 
will practise hatha yoga  for curing his bodily ills; another man 
will trust to God to cure them; a third man will use his will-power 
for it and a fourth man may be totally indifferent to them. But all 
of them will persist in meditation. The quest for the Self is the 
essential factor and all the rest are mere accessories.
A man may have mastered the Vedanta  philosophy and yet remain 
unable to control his thoughts. He may have a predisposition 
(purva samskara ) which takes him to practise hatha yoga. He 
will believe that the mind can be controlled only by yoga and so 
he will practise it.
Q: What is most suitable for gaining facilities for steady dhyana ?
A: It depends on one’s samskara . One may find hatha  yoga suitable 
and another man nama japa , and so on. The essential point is the 
atma-vichara  - enquiry into the Self.
Q: Is it enough if I spend some time in the mornings and some time 
in the evenings for this atma-vichara ? Or should I do it always 
- say, even when I am writing or walking?
A: Now what is your real nature? Is it writing, walking, or being? The 
one unalterable reality is Being. Until you realise that state of pure 
being you should pursue the enquiry. If once you are established 
in it there will be no further worry.
No one will enquire into the source of thoughts unless thoughts 
arise. So long as you think "I am walking," "I am writing," enquire 
who does it.
These actions will however go on when one is firmly established 
in the Self. Does a man always say, "I am a man, I am a man, I am 
a man," every moment of his life? He does not say so and yet all 
his actions are going on.
Q: Is an intellectual understanding of the Truth necessary?
A: Yes. Otherwise why does not the person realise God or the Self 
at once, i.e., as soon as he is told that God is all or the Self is 
all? That shows some wavering on his part. He must argue with 
himself and gradually convince himself of the Truth before his 
faith becomes firm.570Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
20th December, 1938
Talk 597. 
A Swiss lady, Mrs. J. C. S. Hick-Riddingh, asked:  "Does Self-
Realisation imply occult powers also?"
A: The Self is the most intimate and eternal Being whereas the siddhis  are 
foreign. The one requires effort to acquire and the other does not.
The powers are sought by the mind which must be kept alert 
whereas the Self is realised when the mind is destroyed. The 
powers manifest only when there is the ego. The ego makes 
you aware of others and in its absence there are no others to be 
seen. The Self is beyond the ego and is realised after the ego is 
eliminated. The elimination of the ego makes one unaware of 
others. How can the question of others arise and where is the use 
of occult powers for a Self-Realised Being?
Self-Realisation may be accompanied by occult powers or it may 
not be. If the person had sought such powers before Realisation, 
he may get the powers after Realisation. There are others who had 
not sought such powers and had attempted only Self-Realisation. 
They do not manifest such powers.
These powers may also be sought and gained even after Self-
Realisation. But then they are used for a definite purpose, i.e. the 
benefit of others as in the case of Chudala.
Sikhidhvaja was a pious king. His spouse was Chudala. They 
received instructions from a sage. The king, being busy with 
the administration of his kingdom, could not put the instructions 
into practice, whereas Chudala put them into practice and gained 
Self-Realisation. Consequently she appeared more charming than 
before. The king was struck by her growing charm and asked her 
about it. She said that all charm was due to the Self and he was 
only noting the charm of Self-Realisation in her. He said that she 
was silly. There were great tapasvis  who could not realise the Self 
even after long periods of tapas  and what about a silly woman who 
was all along in the family and in the worldly life? 
However, Chudala was not offended because she was firm in the 
Self and only wished that her husband should realise the Self and 571Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
be happy. She then thought that unless she could prove her worth by 
manifesting some extraordinary powers he could not be convinced 
and she began to seek occult powers and gained them. But she did 
not betray them just then. Constant association with her made the 
king dispassionate. He began to dislike the worldly life and desired 
to retire into the forest for performing tapasya . So he told his wife 
that he wanted to leave the world for the forest. She was delighted 
at the development, but pretended to be very much concerned with 
his unkind decision. He hesitated out of consideration for her. In 
the meantime, his dispassion gained in force and he decided to 
leave home even without her consent.
When the queen was sleeping one night he suddenly left the palace 
by stealth and retired into the forest. He was seeking some solitary 
spot where he could perform his tapas . When the queen woke up she 
did not find her husband and immediately found out by her occult 
powers what had really happened. She rejoiced in her husband’s 
determination. She called the ministers and said that the king had 
gone on some important business and that the administration should 
be carried on as efficiently as ever. She herself administered the 
state in the absence of the king.
Eighteen years passed. She then knew that the king was fit for 
Self-Realisation. So she appeared to him disguised as Kumbha and 
so on. He then realised the Self and returned to rule the kingdom 
with the queen.
The point is that occult powers are sought and gained for the 
benefit of others by Self-Realised persons also. But the sages are 
not deluded by the possession of such powers.
Q: Does the sage use occult powers for making others realise the Self 
or is the mere fact of his Self-Realisation enough for it?
A: The force of his Self-Realisation is far more powerful than the 
use of all other powers.
Inasmuch as there is no ego in him, there are not others for him. 
What is the highest benefit that can be conferred on others? It is 
happiness. Happiness is born of Peace. Peace can reign only when 
there is no disturbance. Disturbance is due to thoughts which arise 
in the mind. When the mind itself is absent there will be perfect  572Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Peace. Unless a person had annihilated his mind he cannot gain 
peace and be happy. Unless he himself is happy he cannot bestow 
happiness on others.
When there is no mind he cannot be aware of others. So the mere fact 
of his Self-Realisation is itself enough to make all others happy.
Q: Can samadhi  come and go?
A: What is samadhi ? Samadhi is one’s essential nature. How then 
can it come or go?
If you do not realise your essential nature, your sight remains 
obstructed. What is the obstruction? Find it and remove it. So one’s 
efforts are meant only for the removal of obstructions which hide 
the true vision. The real nature remains the same. When once it is 
realised it is permanent.
Q: But Mr. Brunton says that he had one hour’s samadhi . Therefore 
I asked the question.
A: A practiser gains peace of mind and is happy. That peace is 
the result of his efforts. But the real state must be effortless. 
The effortless samadhi is the true one and the perfect state. It is 
permanent. The efforts are spasmodic and so also their results.
When the real, effortless, permanent, happy nature is realised it 
will be found to be not inconsistent with the ordinary activities of 
life. The samadhi  reached after efforts looks like abstraction from 
the external activities. A person might be so abstracted or live 
freely among people without detriment to his Peace and Happiness 
because that is his true nature or the Self.
21st December, 1938
Talk 598. 
Sri Bhagavan shows great humour at times: He read Upamanya Bhakta 
Vilas  which contains a passage where Arunachalesvara is said to have 
robbed Tirujnanasambandar and his group of followers of all their 
possessions by His bhutaganas  disguised as dacoits. Sri Bhagavan 
remarked: "Siva Himself was waylaid in Tiruvudal Utsava  and He 
practised the same trick on His devotees. Can it be so?"573Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 599. 
A saying of Laotze from Tao Teh Ch’ing  was read out in the hall: "By 
his non-action the sage governs all."
Sri Bhagavan remarked: Non-action is unceasing activity. The sage 
is characterised by eternal and intense activity. His stillness is like 
the apparent stillness of a fast rotating top (gyroscope). Its very speed 
cannot be followed by the eye and so it appears to be still. Yet it is 
rotating. So is the apparent inaction of the sage. 
This must be explained because the people generally mistake stillness 
to be inertness. It is not so.

24th December, 1938
Talk 600. 
A young man asked in broken Tamil:
How long will it be before Self-Realisation?
A: First know what Self means and also what Realisation means: 
then you will know all. 
Q: The mind must realise in the Heart.
A: Be it so. What is mind?
Q: Mind, Heart are all avatars  of Perumal (Vaishnavite term for 
incarnate God).
A: If so no need to worry ourselves.
Q: On this basis how can we realise?
A: Surrender the mind to Perumal (God). His avatar  cannot remain 
independent of Him. Render unto Him what is His and be happy.
Q: How to do so?
A: How is the mind known to us? Owing to its activities, namely, 
thoughts. Whenever thoughts arise remember they are all modes 
of Perumal and they cannot be otherwise, this is enough; this is 
the surrender of the mind. 
Can anything exist independent of Perumal? All is Perumal alone. 
He acts through all. Why worry ourselves?574Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
27th December, 1938
Talk 601. 
G. V. Subbaramiah, an Andhra devotee, mentioned something about time.
A: What is time? It posits a state, one’s recognition of it, and also the 
changes which affect it. The interval between two states is called 
time. A state cannot come into being unless the mind calls it into 
existence. The mind must be held by the Self. If the mind is not 
made use of there is no concept of time. Time and space are in the 
mind but one’s true state lies beyond the mind. The question of time 
does not arise at all to the one established in one’s true nature.
Mr. Narayana Iyer:  Sri Bhagavan’s words are so pleasing to hear 
but their import is beyond our comprehension. That seems to be 
far too much for us even to hope to realise.
G. V . S.:  Our grasp is only intellectual. If Sri Bhagavan be pleased 
to direct us with a few instructions we shall be highly benefited.
A: He who instructs an ardent seeker to do this or that is not a true 
master. The seeker is already afflicted by his activities and wants 
Peace and Rest. In other words he wants cessation of his activities. 
Instead of that he is told to do something in addition to, or in place 
of, his other activities. Can that be a help to the seeker?
Activity is creation; activity is the destruction of one’s inherent 
happiness. If activity be advocated the adviser is not a master but 
the killer. Either the Creator ( Brahma ) or Death ( Yama ) may be 
said to have come in the guise of such a master. He cannot liberate 
the aspirant but strengthens his fetters.
Q: When we attempt to cease from activity the very attempt is action. 
So activity seems to be inevitable.
A: True. Thayumanavar has also alluded to it. A doctor advises a 
patient to take the prescribed medicine with only one condition. 
That condition is not to think of a monkey when he takes the 
medicine. Can the patient ever take the medicine? Will he not think 
of the monkey whenever he tries not to do so? 
So also, when people try to give up thoughts their object is frustrated 
by their very attempt.575Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: How then is the state to be attained?
A: What is there to attain? A thing remains to be attained if it is not 
already attained. But here one’s very being is That.
Someone:  Why do we not then know it?
Annamalaiswami:  I should always try to think I am That .
A: Why should one think "I am That"? He is That only. Does a man 
go on thinking that he is a man?
Mr. Anantachari:  The belief ‘I am a man’ is so deep that we cannot 
help thinking so.
A: Why should you think "I am a man"? If you are challenged you 
may say ‘I am a man’. Therefore the thought - ‘I am a man’ - is 
called up when another thought, say ‘I am an animal’, protrudes 
itself. Similarly, the thought I am That  is necessary only so long 
as the other thought I am a man  persists.
Q: The thought ‘I am a man’ is so firm that it cannot he got rid of.
A: Be your true Self. Why should you think ‘I am a man’?
Q: The thought ‘I am a man’ is so natural.
A: Not so. On the other hand ‘I am’ is natural. Why do you qualify 
it with ‘a man’?
Q: ‘I am a man’ is so obvious whereas ‘I am That’ is not understood 
by us.
A: You are neither That nor This. The truth is ‘I am’. "I AM that I 
AM" according to the Bible also. Mere Being is alone natural. To 
limit it to ‘being a man’ is uncalled for.
Q: (Humorously) If votes be taken the majority will be on my side. 
(Laughter)
A: I cast my vote also on your side (Laughter). I say also ‘I am a man’: 
but I am not limited to the body. It is IN ME. That is the difference.
Someone:  The limitation ( upadhi ) of being a man cannot be got rid of.
A: How were you in deep sleep? There was no thought of being a man.
Another:  So, the state of sleep must be brought about even when one 
is awake.
A: Yes. It is jagrat-sushupti .576Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Sri Bhagavan continued: Some people even say that while they sleep 
they are enclosed somewhere in the body. They forget that such 
an idea did not persist in sleep but rises up only on waking. They 
bring their waking-state to bear upon their sleep.
The lights went down and all retired.
1st January, 1939
Talk 602. 
Dr. Emile Gatheir, S. J., Professor of Philosophy at the Sacred Heart 
College, Shembaganur, Kodaikanal, asked: "Can you kindly give me 
a summary of your teachings?"
A: They are found in small booklets, particularly Who am l ?
Q: I shall read them. But may I have the central point of your 
teachings from your lips?
A: The central point is the thing.
Q: It is not clear.
A: Find the Centre.
Q: I am from God. Is not God distinct from me?
A: Who asks this question? God does not ask it. You ask it. So find 
who you are and then you may find if God is distinct from you.
Q: But God is Perfect and I am imperfect. How can I ever know 
Him fully?
A: God does not say so. The question is for you. After finding who 
you are you may see what God is.
Q: But you have found your Self. Please let us know if God is distinct 
from you.
A: It is a matter of experience. Each one must experience it himself.
Q: Oh! I see. But God is Infinite and I am finite. I have a personality 
which can never merge into God. Is it not so?
A: Infinity and Perfection do not admit of parts. If a finite being 
comes out of infinity the perfection of infinity is marred. Thus your 
statement is a contradiction in terms.
Q: No. I see both God and creation.
A: How are you aware of your personality?577Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: I have a soul. I know it by its activities.
A: Did you know it in deep sleep?
Q: The activities are suspended in deep sleep.
A: But you exist in sleep. So do you now too. Which of these two 
is your real state?
Q: Sleep and waking are mere accidents. I am the substance behind 
the accidents.
(He looked up at the clock and said that it was time for him to catch 
the train. He left after thanking Sri Bhagavan. So the conversation 
ended abruptly).
8th January, 1939
Talk 603. 
Lady Bateman came here with her daughter to visit Sri Bhagavan. She brought 
a letter from Pascaline Maillert, Versailles, which reads as follows:
"Two years have come and gone since last I crossed the threshold of 
Thy Ashram and yet in spirit I have ever remained there.
"Though illusion still often veils the vision of Reality revealed in the 
blessed Silence of Thy Presence.
"Though the Silver Thread of Self-awareness be often lost midst changing 
light and shadows, still the inner urge to realise the Self remains and 
stronger grows and more insistent as Grace and search go hand in hand.
"At times, yet rare, with no apparent cause, spontaneous awareness 
of the ‘I’ springs up and bliss fills the heart with glowing warmth. 
Effortless concentration goes with this state while all desires do come 
to rest fulfilled in utmost peace, till once more the veil is drawn and 
illusion seeks to blur the vision of the Real.
"Yet what the soul has experienced and knows repeatedly as Truth, 
can neither be denied nor ever forgotten and ‘That which is’ gives 
constant strength to persevere.
"I pray to Thee as to my Self for light and guidance that I know are 
ever there and at Thy feet lay offerings of unchanging love."
(Sd.) Pascaline, 11, Rue des Reservous. 
Versailles, 21st November, 1938.578Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
10th January, 1939
Talk 604. 
A certain lady was singing a devotional song. It said among other things:
"Thou art my father, 
Thou art my mother, 
Thou art my relations, 
My possessions and all," and so on.
Sri Bhagavan remarked with a smile, "Yes, Yes, Thou art this, 
that and everything except ‘I’. Why not say ‘I am Thou’ and 
finish it?"
Talk 605. 
A certain Andhra visitor gave Sri Bhagavan a slip of paper containing 
several questions which he desired to be answered. Sri Bhagavan took 
it in His hands, went through the questions and said:
A: "All these questions arise so long as there is one who can ask 
questions. If the questioner is sought and found, the questions will 
end of their own accord."
The man said in reply:  Several people raise these points and I do not 
know how to meet them. Hence I desire to know the fact ( vishaya  
was the word used).
A: If the vishayi  (i.e., the basis of the facts) be understood, the 
vishayas  (i.e., the facts) become clear.
Talk 606. 
Mr. Venkatakrishnayya, a lawyer-devotee, visited Sri Bhagavan ten 
years before and asked Him what he should do to improve himself.  
Sri Bhagavan told him to perform Gayatri Japa . The young man went 
away satisfied. When he returned after some years, he asked:
Q: If I meditate on the meaning of the Gayatri mantra , my mind 
again wanders. What is to be done?
A: Were you told to meditate on the mantra  or its meaning? You 
must think of the one who repeats the mantra .579Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Again, the same man had seen another reputed Mahatma who told him 
to say Om Namah  instead of "OM" because pure "OM" is meant for 
sannyasis  whereas others can repeat Om Namah . When he came here 
he asked Sri Bhagavan about it. Sri Bhagavan replied casually:
Should not others besides the sannyasis  enquire into the Self and 
realise it?
17th January, 1939
Talk 607. 
Sri Bhagavan said to Lady Bateman:  There is a fixed state; sleep, 
dream and waking states are mere movements in it. They are like 
pictures moving on the screen in a cinema show.
Everyone sees the screen as well as the pictures but ignores 
the screen and takes in the pictures alone. The Jnani  however 
considers only the screen and not the pictures. The pictures certainly 
move on the screen yet do not affect it. The screen itself does not 
move but remains stationary.
Similarly, a person travels in a train and thinks that he moves. 
Really speaking he sits and reposes in his seat, and it is the train 
which is steaming fast. He however superimposes the motion of the 
train on himself because he has identified himself with the body. 
He says, "I have passed one station - now another - yet another 
- and so on". A little consideration will show that he sits unmoved 
and the stations run past him. But that does not prevent him from 
saying that he has travelled all the way as if he exerted himself to 
move every foot of the way.
The Jnani  is fully aware that the true state of Being remains fixed 
and stationary and that all actions go on around him. His nature 
does not change and his state is not affected in the least. He looks 
on everything with unconcern and remains blissful himself.
His is the true state and also the primal and natural state of being. When 
once the man reaches it he gets fixed there. Fixed once, fixed ever he 
will be. Therefore that state which prevailed in the days of Pathala 
Linga Cellar continues uninterrupted, with only this difference that 
the body remained there immobile but is now active.580Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
There is no difference between a Jnani  and an ajnani  in their 
conduct. The difference lies only in their angles of vision. The 
ignorant man identifies himself with the ego and mistakes its 
activities for those of the Self, whereas the ego of the Jnani  has 
been lost and he does not limit himself to this body or that, this 
event or that, and so on.
There is action in seeming inaction, and also inaction in seeming 
action as in the following instances:
1. A child is fed while asleep. On waking up the next morning, he 
denies having been fed. It is a case of inaction in seeming action. 
For although the mother saw him take his food the child himself 
is not aware.
2. The cartman sleeps in the cart when it jogs along the way in the 
night and yet he reaches the destination and claims to have driven 
the cart. This is a case of action in seeming inaction.
3. A man appearing to listen to a story nods his head to the speaker 
but yet his mind is otherwise active and he does not really follow 
the story.
4. Two friends sleep side by side. One of them dreams that both 
of them travel round the globe and have varied experiences. On 
waking the dreamer tells the other that both of them have been 
round the earth. The other treats the story with contempt.
The lady protested that dream and sleep do not make any appeal to 
her. She was asked why then she should be careful about her bed 
unless she courted sleep.
She said that it was for relaxation of the exhausted limbs, rather a 
state of auto-intoxication. "The sleep state is really dull, whereas 
the waking state is full of beautiful and interesting things."
A: What you consider to be filled with beautiful and interesting things 
is indeed the dull and ignorant state of sleep, according to the Jnani: 
Ya nisha sarva bhootanam tasyam jagrati samyami .
The wise one is wide awake just where darkness rules for others. 
You must certainly wake up from the sleep which is holding you 
at present.581Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
18th January, 1939
Talk 608. 
Mrs. Hick Riddingh wrote two questions on a slip of paper and asked 
Sri Bhagavan if her interpretations were correct.
A: The Self is beyond ignorance and knowledge. It is Absolute. 
These doubts do not arise to the Self for it is Pure Consciousness 
and cannot admit of dark ignorance.
Q: From our point of view they arise.
A: See to whom they arise. Go to their root. See if they arise after 
you reach their source and hold on to it.
Q: But at the present moment -
A: Such discussions are theoretical and there will be no end to them. 
One must be practical and try to solve the problems for oneself by the 
method suggested. The method has been pointed out already. Find out 
to whom the questions arise. They resolve themselves immediately.
Talk 609. 
Lady Bateman and others came to the hall at about 3-30 p.m. In a few 
minutes she asked in writing if one is nearer to Pure Consciousness 
in deep sleep than in the waking state.
A: The sleep, dream and waking states are mere phenomena 
appearing on the Self which is itself stationary and also a state of 
simple awareness. Can anyone remain away from the Self at any 
moment? This question can arise only if that were possible.
Q: Is it not often said that one is nearer Pure Consciousness in deep 
slumber than in the waking state?
A: The question may as well be: Am I nearer to myself in my sleep 
than in my waking state?
For the Self is Pure Consciousness. No one can ever be away from 
the Self. The question is possible only if there is duality. But there 
is no duality in the state of Pure Consciousness.
The same person sleeps, dreams and wakes up. The waking state is  
considered to be full of beautiful and interesting things. The absence 
of such experiences makes one say that the sleep state is dull. Before 582Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
we proceed further let us make this point clear. Do you not admit 
that you exist in your sleep?
Q: Yes, I do.
A: You are the same person that is now awake. Is it not so?
Q: Yes.
A: So there is a continuity in the sleep and the waking states. What 
is that continuity? It is only the state of Pure Being.
There is a difference in the two states. What is that difference? The 
incidents, namely, the body, the world and the objects appear in 
the waking state but they disappear in sleep.
Q: But I am not aware in my sleep.
A: True, there is no awareness of the body or of the world. But you 
must exist in your sleep in order to say now "I was not aware in my 
sleep". Who says so now? It is the wakeful person. The sleeper cannot 
say so. That is to say, the individual who is now identifying the Self 
with the body says that such awareness did not exist in sleep.
Because you identify yourself with the body, you see the world 
around you and say that the waking state is filled with beautiful and 
interesting things. The sleep state appears dull because you were 
not there as an individual and therefore these things were not. But 
what is the fact? There is the continuity of Being in all the three 
states, but no continuity of the individual and the objects.
Q: Yes.
A: That which is continuous is also enduring, i.e. permanent. That 
which is discontinuous is transitory.
Q: Yes.
A: Therefore the state of Being is permanent and the body and the 
world are not. They are fleeting phenomena passing on the screen 
of Being-Consciousness which is eternal and stationary.
Q: Relatively speaking , is not the sleep state nearer to Pure 
Consciousness than the waking state?
A: Yes, in this sense: When passing from sleep to waking the ‘I’ 
thought must start; the mind comes into play; thoughts arise; 
and then the functions of the body come into operation; all these 583Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
together make us say that we are awake. The absence of all this 
evolution is the characteristic of sleep and therefore it is nearer to 
Pure Consciousness than the waking state.
But one should not therefore desire to be always in sleep. In the 
first place it is impossible, for it will necessarily alternate with the 
other states. Secondly it cannot be the state of bliss in which the 
Jnani  is, for his state is permanent and not alternating. Moreover, 
the sleep state is not recognised to be one of awareness by people, 
but the sage is always aware. Thus the sleep state differs from the 
state in which the sage is established.
Still more, the sleep state is free from thoughts and their impression 
to the individual. It cannot be altered by one’s will because 
effort is impossible in that condition. Although nearer to Pure 
Consciousness, it is not fit for efforts to realise the Self.
The incentive to realise can arise only in the waking state and efforts 
can also be made only when one is awake. We learn that the thoughts 
in the waking state form the obstacle to gaining the stillness of sleep. 
"Be still and know that I AM God". So stillness is the aim of the seeker. 
Even a single effort to still at least a single thought even for a trice goes 
a long way to reach the state of quiescence. Effort is required and it 
is possible in the waking state only. There is the effort here: there is 
awareness also; the thoughts are stilled; so there is the peace of sleep 
gained. That is the state of the Jnani . It is neither sleep nor waking 
but intermediate between the two. There is the awareness of the 
waking state and the stillness of sleep. It is called jagrat-sushupti . 
Call it wakeful sleep or sleeping wakefulness or sleepless waking or 
wakeless sleep. It is not the same as sleep or waking separately. It is 
atijagrat 1 (beyond wakefulness) or atisushupti 2 (beyond sleep). It 
is the state of perfect awareness and of perfect stillness combined. 
It lies between sleep and waking; it is also the interval between two 
successive thoughts. It is the source from which thoughts spring; 
we see that when we wake up from sleep. In other words thoughts 
have their origin in the stillness of sleep. The thoughts make all the 
difference between the stillness of sleep and the turmoil of waking. 
1. Jagrat of jagrat . 
2 .‘Sleep of sleep’. It is beyond jagrat  and sleep as well as in them.584Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Go to the root of the thoughts and you reach the stillness of sleep. But you 
reach it in the full vigour of search, that is, with perfect awareness.
That is again jagrat-sushupti  spoken of before. It is not dullness; but 
it is Bliss. It is not transitory but it is eternal. From that the thoughts 
proceed. What are all our experiences but thoughts? Pleasure and 
pain are mere thoughts. They are within ourselves. If you are free 
from thoughts and yet aware, you are That Perfect Being.
Lady Bateman appreciated the discourse and thanked Sri Bhagavan. 
Later, she said that she would be leaving the next day.
Sri Bhagavan smiled and said: You do not leave one place for another. 
You are always stationary. The scenes go past you. Even from the 
ordinary point of view you sit in your cabin and the ship sails but 
you do not move. We see a picture of a man running several miles 
and rushing towards us but the screen does not move. It is the 
picture that moves on and away.
Q: I see, but I can understand it only after I realise the Self.
A: The Self is always realised. Were Realisation something to be 
gained hereafter there is an equal chance of its being lost. It will 
thus be only transitory. Transitory bliss brings pain in its train. It 
cannot be liberation which is eternal.
Were it true that you realise it later it means that you are not realised 
now. Absence of Realisation of the present moment may be repeated at 
any moment in the future, for Time is infinite. So too, such realisation is 
impermanent. But that is not true. It is wrong to consider Realisation to 
be impermanent. It is the True Eternal State which cannot change.
Q: Yes, I shall understand it in course of time.
A: Y ou are already That. Time and space cannot affect the Self. They are 
in you; so also all that you see around you are in you. There is a story 
to illustrate this point: A lady had a precious necklace round her neck. 
Once in her excitement she forgot it and thought that the necklace was 
lost. She became anxious and looked for it in her home but could not 
find it. She asked her friends and neighbours if they knew anything 
about the necklace. They did not. At last a kind friend of hers told her 
to feel the necklace round the neck. She found that it had all along 
been round her neck and she was happy! When others asked her later 585Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
if she found the necklace which was lost, she said, "Yes, I have found 
it." She still felt that she had recovered a lost jewel.
Now did she lose it at all? It was all along round her neck. But 
judge her feelings. She is happy as if she had recovered a lost jewel. 
Similarly with us, we imagine that we would realise that Self some 
time, whereas we are never anything but the Self.
Q: I feel that I am transplanted into some other land than the earth.
Sri Bhagavan, while looking into some correspondence, heard it, smiled 
and said: This is the Kingdom of Heaven. The Kingdom of Heaven 
mentioned in the Bible and this world are not two different regions. 
"The Kingdom is within you," says the Bible. So it is. The realised 
being sees this as the Kingdom of Heaven whereas the others see it 
as ‘this world’. The difference lies only in the angles of vision.
Q: How can we deny the world and the people therein? I hear some 
music. It is sweet and grand. I recognise it to be Wagner’s music. 
I cannot claim it to be mine.
A: Does Wagner or his music exist apart from you? Unless you are 
there to say that it is Wagner’s music, can you be aware of it? Without 
being aware of it, can it be said to exist? To make it more clear, do 
you recognise Wagner’s music in your deep sleep? And yet you admit 
that you exist in sleep. So it is clear that Wagner and music are only 
your thoughts. They are in you and not out of you.
Q: It is beautiful.
[Compiler’s remarks:  Everyone is apt to be confused from time 
to time. Although the truth is heard and understood, at times it is 
forgotten, and mistakes are committed when facts face the person. 
Knowledge gives place to ignorance and confusion is the result. But 
the sage alone can give the right turn to our thoughts from time to time. 
That is the necessity for Satsanga  i.e., association with the Wise.]
Talk 610. 
A devotee came with these questions.
1. Since individual souls and the Brahman are one, what is the 
cause of this creation?
2. Is the Brahma- Jnani  liable to bodily pains and rebirth? Can he 
extend his span of life or curtail it?586Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: The object of creation is to remove the confusion of your 
individuality. The question shows that you have identified yourself 
with the body and therefore see yourself and the world around. You 
think that you are the body. Your mind and intellect are the factors 
of your wrong identity.
Do you exist in your sleep?
Q: I do.
A: The same being is now awake and asks these questions. Is it not so?
Q: Yes.
A: These questions did not arise in your sleep. Did they?
Q: No.
A: Why not? Because you did not see your body and no thoughts 
arose. You did not identify yourself with the body then. Therefore 
these questions did not arise. 
They arise now because of your identity with the body. Is it not so?
Q: Yes.
A: Now see which is your real nature. Is it that which is free from 
thoughts or that which is full of thoughts?
Being is continuous. The thoughts are discontinuous. So which is 
permanent?
Q: Being.
A: That is it. Realise it. That is your true nature. Your nature is simple 
Being, free from thoughts.
Because you identify yourself with the body you want to know 
about creation. The world and the objects including your body 
appear in the waking state but disappear in the state of sleep. You 
exist all through these states. What is it then that persists through 
all these states? Find it out. That is your Self.
Q: Supposing it is found, what then?
A: Find it out and see. There is no use asking hypothetical questions.
Q: Am I then one with Brahman?
A: Leave Brahman alone. Find who you are. Brahman can take care 
of Himself.587Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
If you cease to identify yourself with the body no questions regarding 
creation, birth, death, etc., will arise. They did not arise in your sleep. 
Similarly they will not arise in the true state of the Self.
The object of creation is thus clear, that you should proceed from 
where you find yourself and realise your true Being
You could not raise the question in your sleep because there 
is no creation there. You raise the question now because your 
thoughts appear and there is creation. Creation is thus found to 
be only your thoughts.
Take care of yourself and the Brahma- jnani  will take care of 
Himself. If you know your true nature, you will understand the 
state of Brahma- jnana . It is futile to explain it now. Because you 
think that you see a Jnani  before you and you identify him with a 
body just as you have identified yourself with yours, you also think 
that he feels pains and pleasures like yourself.
Q: But I must know if he is a Jnani  for I must be inspired by him.
A: Yes, he tells you; he inspires. Do as he tells you. You want to 
learn and not test him.
Jnana lakshanas  are stated in the sastras  to be an incentive to a 
seeker to get rid of misery and seek happiness. The methods are 
given. If they are followed the result will be jnana  having those 
lakshanas . They are not meant for testing others.
Talk 611. 
Q: I think that the soul is the light within. If after death it becomes 
one with Brahman how can there be transmigration of soul?
A: Within whom? Who dies?
Q: I shall then frame my question in a different way.
A: Dialectics are not wanted. Consider the answer and see.
Q: How?
A: Now that you identify yourself with the body you say that the soul 
is the light within. You mean that there is light within the body.
Think a little and say if the body can raise any questions. It is 
insentient and cannot say ‘I’. Something else says ‘I’. What is it? 
Can it be the Self? The Self is pure and is not aware of any other so 588Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
as to be able to say ‘I’. Who then says ‘I’? It is the link between the 
pure Chit (the Self) and the jada (the body). That is the ego. Who 
are you now? What is it that is born? The Self is eternal and cannot 
be born. The body appears and disappears and your identity with 
it makes you speak of birth and death. See if the true significance 
of ‘I’ can ever take birth. For whom is transmigration?
Q: Sir, we are here to have our doubts cleared.
A: Certainly.
Q: Our doubts can be cleared only when we ask questions.
A: Yes. No one objects to questions being asked.
Q: It is said pariprasnena sevaya  (by questioning again and again 
and by service). So we should ask questions and the Master should 
kindly remove our doubts.
A: Continue your quotation upadekshyanti tattvam  (They give 
instructions in Truth).
Q: Yes. But our doubts must be cleared.
A: So it was with Arjuna. For he says in the end nashto mohah 
smritirlabdha  (lost is my ignorance; memory restored).
Q: It was in the end. Before then he asked so many questions.
A: The Truth was revealed even at the start. For the very first sloka of Sri 
Krishna’s upadesa  starts: "No birth and no death, no change, etc."
Q: Sri Krishna also says, "We have had many rebirths. I am aware 
of them; but you are not."
A: That was only because the question arose how Sri Krishna 
could claim to have taught the eternal Truth to Aditya. The Truth 
was stated even at the start. Arjuna did not understand it. The 
jnani’ s  state was later described and also the means of attainment. 
Incidentally Sri Krishna said that the Truth was eternal and that 
He had originally taught the same to Aditya. Arjuna was all along 
identifying himself with the body and therefore thought that Sri 
Krishna also was the body in front of him. He therefore asked, 
"How can it be? You (Sri Krishna) were born of Devaki some years 
before. Aditya was among those who started creation. How could 
you have taught this Truth to Aditya?"589Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Sri Krishna continues to answer Arjuna’s questions in that strain: "Many 
rebirths we have had. I know them all; but you do not," and so on.
Q: We must also know the Truth.
A: You are taught the Truth. Instructions have been given. See who 
you are. That is the whole instruction.
19th January, 1939
Talk 612. 
Mrs. Hick Riddingh asked Sri Bhagavan in writing:
When Bhagavan writes about the help given towards attaining Self-
Realisation by the gracious glance of the Master or looking upon the 
Master, how exactly is this to be understood?"
A: Who is the Master? Who is the seeker?
Q: The Self.
A: If the Self be the Master and also the seeker, how can the questions 
arise at all?
Q: That is just my difficulty. I must seek the Self within myself. 
What is then the significance of the writing above referred to? It 
seems contradictory.
A: It is not. The statement has not been rightly understood.
If the seeker knows the Master to be the Self he sees no duality in 
other respects either and is therefore happy, so that no questions 
arise for him.
But the seeker does not bring the truth of the statement to bear in 
practice. It is because of his ignorance. This ignorance is however 
unreal. The Master is required to wake up the seeker from the 
slumber of ignorance and he therefore uses these words in order 
to make Reality clear to others.
The only thing that matters is that you see the Self. This. can be 
done wherever you remain. The Self must be sought within. The 
search must be steadfast. If that is gained there is no need to stay 
near the Master as a physical being.
The ‘statement’ is meant for those who cannot find the Self 
remaining where they are.590Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Mr. Ward Jackson:  The lady’s difficulty is real and I sympathise 
with her. She asks, "If we could see the Self within ourselves, 
why should we have come all the way to see Him? We had been 
thinking of Him so long and it is only right that we came here. Is 
it then unnecessary to do so?"
A: You have done well in having come. " Isvaro gururatmeti " (The 
Self is the God and Guru). A person seeks happiness and learns 
that God alone can make one happy. He prays to God and worships 
Him. God hears his prayers, and responds by appearing in human 
shape as a Master in order to speak the language of the devotee and 
make him understand the Reality. The Master is thus God manifest 
as human being. He gives out His experience so that the seeker 
might also gain it. His experience is to abide as the Self. The Self 
is within. God, Master and the Self are therefore seeming stages 
in the Realisation of the Truth. You have doubts on reading books. 
You have come here to have them cleared. That is only right.
Mrs. H. R.:  I understand the Self to be the Master and must be sought 
within. So I can do it where I live.
A: The understanding has been theoretical. When it is put into 
practice difficulties and doubts arise. If you can feel the presence 
of the Master where you are, your doubts are readily overcome, for 
the Master’s part consists in removing the doubts of the seeker.
The purpose of your visit is fulfilled if the doubts do not arise hereafter, 
and you apply yourself steadily in the search for the Self.
Q: I understand it all along.
A: Good. The objection is not to your conclusion but it is to your 
doubts.
Mr. W. J.: When we read about it we read it intellectually. But it is all too 
remote. When we see you in body we are brought nearer to Reality and 
it gives us courage to bring our knowledge into our everyday life.
If one realised the Self and acted up to it in the West, one would 
be locked up in a lunatic asylum. (Laughter.)
A: You will be locking yourself in. Because the world is mad, 
considers you mad. Where is the lunatic asylum if it is not within. 
You will not be in it, but it will be in you. (Laughter).591Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Uncertainties, doubts and fears are natural to everyone until the Self is 
realised. They are inseparable from the ego, rather they are the ego.
Q: How are they to disappear?
A: They are the ego. If the ego goes they go with it. The ego is 
itself unreal. What is the ego? Enquire. The body is insentient and 
cannot say ‘I’ . The Self is pure consciousness and non-dual. It 
cannot say ‘I’ . No one says, ‘I’ in sleep. What is the ego then? It 
is something intermediate between the inert body and the Self. It 
has no locus standi . If sought for it vanishes like a ghost. You see, 
a man imagines that there is something by his side in darkness; it 
may be some dark object. If he looks closely the ghost is not to be 
seen, but some dark object which he could identify as a tree or a 
post, etc. If he does not look closely the ghost strikes terror in the 
person. All that is required is only to look closely and the ghost 
vanishes. The ghost was never there. So also with the ego. It is 
an intangible link between the body and Pure Consciousness. It is 
not real. So long as one does not look closely it continues to give 
trouble. But when one looks for it, it is found not to exist.
Again, in a Hindu marriage function, the feasts continue five or 
six days. A stranger was mistaken for the best man by the bride’s 
party and they therefore treated him with special regard. Seeing him 
treated with special regard by the bride’s party, the bridegroom’s 
party considered him to be some man of importance related to the 
bride’s party and therefore they too showed him special respect. 
The stranger had altogether a happy time of it. He was also all 
along aware of the real situation. On one occasion the groom’s 
party wanted to refer to him on some point. They asked for him. 
He scented trouble and made himself scarce. So it is with the ego. 
If looked for, it disappears. If not, it continues to give trouble.
How it is to be looked for is learnt from those who have already 
done so. That is the reason why the Master is approached.
Q: If the search has to be made within, is it necessary to be in the 
physical proximity of the Master?
A: It is necessary to do so until all doubts are at an end.
Q: If the ego is unreal and troublesome why did we take so much 
pains to develop it?592Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: Its growth and the trouble consequent on such growth make you look 
for the cause of it all. Its development is for its own destruction.
Q: Is it not said that one must be like a child before one advances 
spiritually?
A: Yes, because the ego is not developed in the child.
Q: I mean exactly the same. We could have remained like the child 
instead of having developed the ego.
A: The state of the child is meant. No one can take lessons from the 
child for the Realisation of the Self. The Master’s state is like the 
state of the child. There is a difference between the two. The ego is 
potential in the child, whereas it is totally destroyed in the saint.
Q: Yes, I see, I understand it now.
A: The Reality is alone and eternal. To understand it is good enough. 
But the old ignorance should not return. A good watch must be kept 
lest the present understanding of the Truth suffers later on.
A disciple served a master a long time and realised the Self. He was 
in Bliss and wanted to express his gratitude to the master. He was in 
tears of joy and his voice choked when he spoke. He said, "What a 
wonder that I did not know my very Self all these years? I suffered 
long and you so graciously helped me to realise the Self. How shall I 
repay your Grace? It is not in my power to do it!" The master replied: 
"Well, well. Your repayment consists in not lapsing into ignorance 
over again but in continuing in the state of your real Self."
[Compiler’ s remarks:  The Self is the Master and all else. The Realisation 
of the Self means Self-surrender or merging into the Master. What more 
can anyone do? That is the highest form of gratitude to the Master].
21st January, 1939
Talk 613. 
A young man asked: "Are thoughts mere matter?"
A: What do you mean? Do you mean ‘matter’ like the things you 
see around you?
Q: Yes - gross.
A: Who asks this question? Who is the thinker?593Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: The thinker is spirit.
A: Do you then mean that spirit generates matter? 
Q: I want to know.
A: How do you distinguish between matter and spirit?
Q: Spirit is consciousness and the other not.
A: Can consciousness generate non-consciousness, or light darkness?
24th January, 1939
Talk 614. 
There were a few respectable men in the hall. Sri Bhagavan spoke to them 
some time after their arrival. Where is the use of trying to remember the 
past or discover the future? That which matters is only the present. Take 
care of it and the other things will take care of themselves.
Q: Is it bad to desire something?
A: One should not be elated on having his desire fulfilled or 
disappointed on being frustrated. To be elated on the fulfilment 
of desire is so deceitful. A gain will certainly be lost ultimately. 
Therefore elation must end in pain at a future date. One should not 
give place to feelings of pleasure or pain, come what may. How do 
the events affect the person? Y ou do not grow by acquiring something 
nor wither away by losing it. You remain what you always are.
Q: We worldly men cannot resist desire.
A: You may desire but be prepared for any eventuality. Make effort, 
but do not be lost in the result. Accept with equanimity whatever 
happens. For pleasure and pain are mere mental modes. They have 
no relation to the objective realities.
Q: How?
A: There were two young friends in a village in South India. They were 
learned and wanted to earn something with which they might afford 
relief to their respective families. They took leave of their parents and 
went to Benares on a pilgrimage. On the way one of them died. The 
other was left alone. He wandered for a time, and in the course of a few 
months he made a good name and earned some money. He wanted to 
earn more before he returned to his home. In the meantime he met a  594Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
pilgrim who was going south and would pass through the native village 
of the young pandit. He requested the new acquaintance to tell his parents 
that he would return after a few months with some funds and also that his 
companion had died on the way. The man came to the village and found 
the parents. He gave them the news, but changed the names of the two 
men. Consequently the parents of the living man bemoaned his supposed 
loss and the parents of the dead man were happy expecting the return of 
their son bringing rich funds as well.
You see therefore that pleasure and pain have no relation to the 
actualities but are mere mental modes.
Talk 615. 
Another from the group asked: How is the ego to be destroyed?
A: Hold the ego first and then ask how it is to be destroyed. Who asks 
this question? It is the ego. Can the ego ever agree to kill itself? This 
question is a sure way to cherish the ego and not to kill it. If you seek 
the ego you will find it does not exist. That is the way to destroy it.
In this connection I am often reminded of a funny incident which 
took place when I was living in the West Chitrai Street in Madura. A 
neighbour in an adjoining house anticipated the visit of a thief to his 
house. He took precautions to catch him. He posted policemen in mufti 
to guard the two ends of the lane, the entrance and the back-door to his 
own house. The thief came as expected and the men rushed to catch him. 
He took in the situation at a glance and shouted "Hold him, hold him. 
There - he runs - there - there." Saying so he made good his escape.
So it is with the ego. Look for it and it will not be found. That is 
the way to get rid of it.
23rd to 28th January, 1939
Talk 616. 
Q: Is the Jivanadi  an entity or a figment of the imagination?
A: The yogis  say that there is a nadi called the jivanadi, atmanadi or 
paranadi . The Upanishads speak of a centre from which thousands 
of nadis  branch off. Some locate such a centre in the brain and 
others in other centres. The Garbhopanishad  traces the formation 
of the foetus and the growth of the child in the womb. The jiva is 595Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
considered to enter the child through the fontanelle in the seventh 
month of its growth. In evidence thereof it is pointed out that the 
fontanelle is tender in a baby and is also seen to pulsate. It takes 
some months for it to ossify. Thus the jiva comes from above, enters 
through the fontanelle and works through the thousands of the 
nadis  which are spread over the whole body. Therefore the seeker 
of Truth must concentrate on the sahasrara , that is the brain, in 
order to regain his source. Pranayama  is said to help the yogi to 
rouse the Kundalini Sakti  which lies coiled in the solar plexus. The 
sakti rises through a nerve called the Sushumna , which is imbedded 
in the core of the spinal cord and extends to the brain.
If one concentrates on the Sahasrara  there is no doubt that the ecstasy 
of samadhi  ensues. The vasanas , that is the latencies, are not however 
destroyed. The yogi is therefore bound to wake up from the samadhi , 
because release from bondage has not yet been accomplished. He 
must still try to eradicate the vasanas  in order that the latencies yet 
inherent in him may not disturb the peace of his samadhi . So he 
passes down from the sahasrara  to the heart through what is called 
the jivanadi , which is only a continuation of the Sushumna . The 
Sushumna  is thus a curve. It starts from the solar plexus, rises through 
the spinal cord to the brain and from there bends down and ends in 
the heart. When the yogi has reached the heart, the samadhi  becomes 
permanent. Thus we see that the heart is the final centre.
Some Upanishads also speak of 101 nadis which spread from the heart, 
one of them being the vital nadi. If the jiva comes down from above and 
gets reflected in the brain, as the yogis  say, there must be a reflecting 
surface in action. That must also be capable of limiting the Infinite 
Consciousness to the limits of the body. In short the Universal Being 
becomes limited as a jiva. Such reflecting medium is furnished by the 
aggregate of the vasanas of the individual. It acts like the water in a 
pot which reflects the image of an object. If the pot be drained of its 
water there will be no reflection. The object will remain without being 
reflected. The object here is the Universal Being-Consciousness which 
is all-pervading and therefore immanent in all. It need not be cognised 
by reflection alone; it is self-resplendent. Therefore the seeker’s aim 
must be to drain away the vasanas  from the heart and let no reflection 
obstruct the Light of Eternal Consciousness. This is achieved by the 596Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
search for the origin of the ego and by diving into the heart. This is the 
direct method for Self-Realisation. One who adopts it need not worry 
about nadis , the brain, the Sushumna , the Paranadi , the Kundalini, 
pranayama  or the six centres.
The Self does not come from anywhere else and enter the body through 
the crown of the head. It is as it is, ever sparkling, ever steady, unmoving 
and unchanging. The changes which are noticed are not inherent in 
the Self which abides in the Heart and is self-luminous like the Sun. 
The changes are seen in Its Light. The relation between the Self and 
the body or the mind may be compared to that of a clear crystal and 
its background. If the crystal is placed against a red flower, it shines 
red; if placed against a green leaf it shines green, and so on. The 
individual confines himself to the limits of the changeful body or of 
the mind which derives its existence from the unchanging Self. All 
that is necessary is to give up this mistaken identity, and that done, the 
ever-shining Self will be seen to be the single non-dual Reality.
The reflection of Consciousness is said to be in the subtle body 
(sukshma sarira ), which appears to be composed of the brain and 
the nerves radiating from it to all parts of the trunk, chiefly through 
the spinal column and the solar plexus.
When I was on the Hill, Nayana (Kavyakantha Ganapathi Muni) 
once argued that the brain was the seat of the vasanas , because it 
consisted of innumerable cells in which the vasanas  were contained 
and illuminated by the light of the Self which projected from the 
heart. Only this set a person working or thinking.
But I said, "How can it be so? The vasanas  must be with one’s Self 
and can never remain away from the Self. If, as you say, the vasanas  
be contained in the brain and the Heart is the seat of the Self, a person 
who is decapitated must be rid of his vasanas  and should not be 
reborn. You agree that it is absurd. Now can you say that the Self is 
in the brain with the vasanas ? If so, why should the head bend down 
when one falls asleep? Moreover a person does not touch his head 
and say ‘I’. Therefore it follows that the Self is in the Heart and the 
vasanas  are also there in an exceedingly subtle form.
"When the vasanas  are projected from the Heart they are associated 
with the Light of the Self and the person is said to think. The 597Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
vasanas  which lie imbedded in an atomic condition grow in size 
in their passage from the heart to the brain. The brain is the screen 
on which the images of the vasanas  are thrown and it is also the 
place of their functional distribution. The brain is the seat of the 
mind, and the mind works through it."
So then this is what happens. When a vasana  is released and it comes 
into play, it is associated with the light of the Self. It passes from the 
heart to the brain and on its way it grows more and more until it holds 
the field all alone and all the vasanas  are thus kept in abeyance for the 
time being. When the thought is reflected in the brain it appears as an 
image on a screen. The person is then said to have a clear perception 
of things. He is a great thinker or discoverer. Neither the thought that 
is extolled as being original, nor the thing, nor the country which 
is claimed to be a new discovery, is really original or new. It could 
not manifest unless it was already in the mind. It was of course very 
subtle and remained imperceptible, because it lay repressed by the 
more urgent or insistent thoughts or vasanas . When they have spent 
themselves this thought arises and by concentration the Light of 
the Self makes it clear, so that it appears magnificent, original and 
revolutionary. In fact it was only within all along.
This concentration is called samyamana  in the Yoga Sastras . One’s 
desires can be fulfilled by this process and it is said to be a siddhi . It 
is how the so-called new discoveries are made. Even worlds can be 
created in this manner. Samyamana  leads to all siddhis . But they do 
not manifest so long as the ego lasts. Concentration according to yoga 
ends in the destruction of the experiencer (ego), experience and the 
world, and then the quondam desires get fulfilled in due course. This 
concentration bestows on individuals even the powers of creating 
new worlds. It is illustrated in the Aindava Upakhyana  in the Yoga 
Vasishta  and in the Ganda Saila Loka  in the Tripura Rahasya.
Although the powers appear to be wonderful to those who do not 
possess them, yet they are only transient. It is useless to aspire for 
that which is transient. All these wonders are contained in the one 
changeless Self. The world is thus within and not without. This 
meaning is contained in verses 11 and 12 - Chapter V of Sri Ramana 
Gita "The entire Universe is condensed in the body, and the entire 598Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
body in  the Heart. Thus the Heart is the nucleus of the whole Universe." 
Therefore Samyamana  relates to concentration on different parts of 
the body for the different siddhis.  Also the Visva  or the Virat  is said to 
contain the cosmos within the limits of the body. Again, "The world 
is not other than the mind, the mind is not other than the Heart; that 
is the whole truth." So the Heart comprises all. This is what is taught 
to Svetaketu by the illustration of the seed of a fig tree. The source is 
a point without any dimensions. It expands as the cosmos on the one 
hand and as Infinite Bliss on the other. That point is the pivot. From 
it a single vasana  starts, multiplies as the experiencer ‘I’, experience, 
and the world. The experiencer and the source are referred to in the 
mantra . Two birds, exactly alike, arise simultaneously.
When I was staying in the Skandasramam I sometimes used to go out 
and sit on a rock. On one such occasion there were two or three others 
with me including Rangaswami Iyengar. Suddenly we noticed some 
small moth-like insect shooting up like a rocket into the air from a 
crevice in the rock. Within the twinkling of an eye it had multiplied 
itself into millions of moths which formed a cloud and hid the sky 
from view. We wondered at it and examined the place from which it 
shot up. We found that it was only a pinhole and knew that so many 
insects could not have issued from it in such a short time.
That is how ahankara  (ego) shoots up like a rocket and 
instantaneously spreads out as the Universe.
The Heart is therefore the centre. A person can never be away from 
it. If he is he is already dead. Although the Upanishads say that 
the jiva functions through other centres on different occasions, yet 
he does not relinquish the Heart. The centres are simply places of 
business (vide Vedanta Chudamani ). The Self is bound to the Heart, 
like a cow tethered to a peg. The movements are controlled by the 
length of the rope. All its wanderings centre around the peg.
A caterpillar crawls on a blade of grass and when it has come to the 
end, it seeks another support. While doing so it holds on with its 
hind-legs to the blade of grass, lifts the body and sways to and fro 
before it can hold another. Similarly it is with the Self. It stays in 
the Heart and holds other centres also according to circumstances. 
But its activities always centre round the Heart.599Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 617. 
There are five states for the individual. They are: (1) Jagrat , (2) Swapna , (3) 
Sushupti , (4) Turiya , (5) Turyatita . Of these the jagrat  is the waking state.
In it the jiva in the Visva  aspect and the Lord in the Virat  aspect, 
abiding together in the eight petals of the Heart lotus, function 
through the eyes and enjoy novel pleasures from various objects by 
means of all the senses, organs, etc. The five gross elements which 
are widespread, the ten senses, the five vital airs, the four inner 
faculties, the twenty-four fundamentals - all these together form the 
gross body. The jagrat  state is characterised by satva guna  denoted 
by the letter A and presided over by the deity Vishnu. The swapna  
is the dream state in which the jiva in the Taijasa  aspect and the 
Lord in the Hiranyagarbha  aspect, abiding together in the corolla 
of the Heart-Lotus, function in the neck and experience through the 
mind the results of the impressions collected in the waking state. 
All the principles, the five gross elements, the will and the intellect, 
seventeen in all, together form the subtle body of the dream which is 
characterised by the rajo guna  denoted by the letter U and presided 
over by the deity Brahma, so say the wise.
The sushupti  is the state of deep sleep in which the jiva in the Prajna  
aspect and the Lord in the Isvara  aspect, abiding together in the stamen 
of the Heart-Lotus, experience the bliss of the Supreme by means of 
the subtle avidya  (nescience). Just as a hen after roaming about in the 
day calls the chicks to her, enfolds them under her wings and goes to 
rest for the night, so also the subtle individual being, after finishing 
the experiences of the jagrat  and swapna  for the time being, enters 
with the impressions gathered during those states into the causal body 
which is made up of nescience, characterised by tamo guna , denoted 
by the letter M and presided over by the deity Rudra.
Deep sleep is nothing but the experience of pure being . The three states 
go by different names, such as the three regions, the three forts, the 
three deities, etc. The being always abides in the Heart, as stated above. 
If in the jagrat  state the Heart is not relinquished, the mental activities 
are stilled and Brahman alone is contemplated, the state is called the 
Turiya . Again when the individual being merges in the Supreme it is 
called the turyatita . The vegetable kingdom is always in sushupti ; the 600Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
animals have both swapna  and sushupti ; the gods (celestials) are always 
in jagrat ; man has all the three states; but the clear-sighted yogi abides 
only in turiya , and the highest yogi remains in turyatita  alone.
The three states alternate involuntarily for the average man. The last 
two ( turiya  and turyatita ) are however the results of practice and form 
clear aids to liberation. Of the other three states ( Jagrat, swapna and 
sushupti ) each one is exclusive of the other two and limited by the 
conditions of time and space. They are therefore unreal.
Our very experience of the jagrat  and the swapna  states proves that 
the Consciousness as the Self underlies all the five states, remains 
perfect all along and witnesses all of them. But with regard to similar 
consciousness in the deep sleep, every person is known to say "I was 
not aware of anything; I slept soundly and happily". Two facts emerge 
from the statement (unawareness of anything and the happiness of sound 
sleep). Unless these existed and were experienced in sleep they could 
not find expression by the same person in the waking state. Inference 
also leads to the same conclusion. Just as the eye sees the darkness 
which remains enveloping all objects, so also the Self sees the darkness 
of nescience which remained covering the phenomenal world.
This darkness was experienced when it (the Self) emerged in dots of 
supreme bliss, shone a trice and fleeted away in such fine subtlety 
as the rays of the moon which peer through the waving foliage. The 
experience was however not through any media (such as the senses of 
the mind), but bears out the fact that consciousness does exist in deep 
sleep. The unawareness is owing to the absence of relative knowledge, 
and the happiness to the absence of (seething) thoughts.
If the experience of bliss in deep sleep is a fact, how is it that no one among 
all the human beings recollects it? A diver who has found the desired thing 
under water cannot make his discovery known to the expectant persons 
on the shore until he emerges from the water. Similarly the sleeper cannot 
express his experience because he cannot contact the organs of expression 
until he is awakened by his vasanas  in due course. Therefore it follows 
that the Self is the light of Sat, Chit, Ananda.
Visva, Taijasa and Prajna  are the denominations of the experiencer in the 
waking, dream and deep sleep states respectively. The same individual 601Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
underlies all of them. They do not therefore represent the True Self which 
is pure Sat, Chit, Ananda . The experience in deep sleep was said to be the 
bliss of Brahman. It is only the negative aspect of such bliss, as it is the 
result of the absence of thoughts. Moreover it is transitory. Such a bliss is 
only the abhasa , the counterfeit of Supreme Bliss. It is not different from 
the blissful feeling of sensual pleasures. In deep sleep the Prajna  is said 
to be united with the Self. So the individuality is potential in sleep.
The Self is the basis of all the experiences. It remains as the witness 
and the support of them all. The Reality is thus different from the 
three states, the waking, the dream and the deep sleep.
1st February, 1939
Talk 618. 
A gentleman from Hardwar:  When I go on analysing myself I go 
beyond the intellect, and then there is no happiness.
A: Intellect is only an instrument of the Self. It cannot help you to 
know what is beyond itself.
Q: I understand it. But there is no happiness beyond it.
A: The intellect is the instrument wherewith to know unknown things. 
But you are already known, being the Self which is itself knowledge; 
so you do not become the object of knowledge. The intellect makes 
you see things outside, and not that which is its own source.
Q: The question is repeated.
A: The intellect is useful thus far, it helps you to analyse yourself, and 
no further. It must then be merged into the ego, and the source of 
the ego must be sought. If that be done the ego disappears. Remain 
as that source and then the ego does not arise
Q: There is no happiness in that state.
A: ‘There is no happiness’ is only a thought. The Self is bliss, pure 
and simple. You are the Self. So you cannot but be bliss; being so, 
you cannot say here is no happiness. That which says so cannot be 
the Self; it is the non-Self and must be got rid of in order to realise 
the bliss of the Self.
Q: How is that to be done?602Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: See wherefrom the thought arises. It is the mind. See for whom 
the mind or intellect functions. For the ego. Merge the intellect in 
the ego and seek the source of the ego. The ego disappears. ‘I know’ 
and ‘I do not know’ imply a subject and an object. They are due to 
duality. The Self is pure and absolute, One and alone. There are no 
two selves so that one may know the other. What is duality then? 
It cannot be the Self which is One and alone. It must be non-Self. 
Duality is the characteristic of the ego. When thoughts arise duality 
is present; know it to be the ego, and seek its source.
The degree of the absence of thoughts is the measure of your progress 
towards Self-Realisation. But Self-Realisation itself does not admit of 
progress; it is ever the same. The Self remains always in realisation. 
The obstacles are thoughts. Progress is measured by the degree of 
removal of the obstacles to understanding that the Self is always 
realised. So thoughts must be checked by seeking to whom they 
arise. So you go to their Source, where they do not arise.
Q: Doubts are always arising. Hence my question.
A: A doubt arises and is cleared; another arises and that is cleared, 
making way for another, and so it goes on. So there is no possibility 
of clearing away all doubts. See to whom  the doubts arise. Go to their 
source and abide in it. Then they cease to arise. That is how doubts are 
to be cleared. Atma samstham manah krtva na kinchidapi chintayet .
Q: Grace alone can help me to it.
A: Grace is not exterior. In fact your very desire for grace is due to 
grace that is already in you.
Talk 619. 
An Andhra gentleman read out a verse from the Viveka Chudamani  
setting forth the sense of the Maitreyi Brahmana  of the Brihadaranyaka 
Upanishad  and asked the meaning of atma  which occurred there.
A: The Self.
Q: Is not prema  (love) for something else?
A: The desire for happiness ( sukha prema ) is a proof of the ever-
existing happiness of the Self. Otherwise how can desire for it arise 
in you? If headache was natural to human beings no one would 603Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
try to get rid of it. But everyone that has a headache tries to get rid 
of it, because he has known a time when he had no headache. He 
desires only that which is natural to him. So too he desires happiness 
because happiness is natural to him. Being natural, it is not acquired. 
Man’s attempts can only be to get rid of misery. If that be done the 
ever-present bliss is felt. The primal bliss is obscured by the non-self 
which is synonymous with non-bliss or misery. Duhkha nasam  = 
sukha prapti.  (Loss of unhappiness amounts to gain of happiness.) 
Happiness mixed with misery is only misery. When misery is 
eliminated then the ever-present bliss is said to be gained. Pleasure 
which ends in pain is misery. Man wants to eschew such pleasure. 
Pleasures are priya, moda  and pra-moda.  When a desired object is 
near at hand there arises priya : when it is taken possession of moda  
arises; when it is being enjoyed pra-moda  prevails. The reason for 
the pleasureableness of these states is that one thought excludes all 
others, and then this single thought also merges into the Self . These 
states are enjoyed in the Anandamaya kosa  only. As a rule Vijnanamaya 
kosa prevails on waking. In deep sleep all thoughts disappear and the 
state of obscuration is one of bliss; there the prevailing body is the 
Anandamaya . These are sheaths and not the core, which is interior 
to all these. It lies beyond waking, dream and deep sleep. That is the 
Reality and consists of true bliss ( nijananda ).
Q: Is not hatha  yoga necessary for the inquiry into the Self?
A: Each one finds some one method suitable to himself, because of 
latent tendencies ( purva samskara ).
Q: Can hatha  yoga be accomplished at my age?
A: Why do you think of all that? Because you think it exterior to 
yourself you desire it and try for it. But do you not exist all along? 
Why do you leave yourself and go after something external?
Q: It is said in Aparoksha-anubhuti  that hatha  yoga is a necessary 
aid for inquiry into the Self.
A: The hatha  yogis claim to keep the body fit so that the enquiry 
may be effected without obstacles. They also say that life must be 
prolonged so that the enquiry may be carried to a successful end. 
Furthermore there are those who use some medicines ( kayakalpa ) 
with that end in view. Their favourite example is: the screen must 604Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
be perfect before the painting is begun. Yes, but which is the screen 
and which the painting? According to them the body is the screen 
and the inquiry into the Self is the painting. But is not the body 
itself a picture on the screen, the Self?
Q: But hatha  yoga is so much spoken of as an aid.
A: Yes. Even great pandits well versed in the Vedanta continue the 
practice of it. Otherwise their minds will not subside. So you may 
say it is useful for those who cannot otherwise still the mind.
Q: Saguna upasana  (worship of the personal God) is said to be 
imperfect. It is also said that nirguna upasana  (devotion to the 
impersonal) is hard and risky. I am fit for the former only. What 
is to be done?
A: The Saguna  merges into the nirguna  in the long run. The saguna  
purifies the mind and takes one to the final goal. The afflicted one, 
the seeker of knowledge, and the seeker of gains are all dear to 
God. But the  Jnani is the Self of God.
Talk 620. 
Q: "Not this - not this". That is the teaching to the seeker. He is told 
that the Self is Supreme. How is it to be found?
A: The Self is said to be the hearer, thinker, knower, etc. But that is 
not all. It is also described as the ear of ear, the mind of mind, etc.; 
and by what means to know the knower?
Q: But this does not say what the Self is.
A: "Not this - not this".
Q: It only negates.
A: (Silence).
The devotee complains that the Self is not pointed out.
A: A man wants to know what he is. He sees animals and objects 
around him. He is told: ‘You are not a cow, not a horse, not a tree, 
not this, not that, and so on’. If again the man asks saying ‘You 
have not said what I am,’ the answer will be, ‘It is not said you are 
not a man’. He must find out for himself that he is a man. So you 
must find out for yourself what you are.605Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
You are told, ‘You are not this body, nor the mind, nor the intellect, 
nor the ego, nor anything you can think of; find out what truly you 
are’. Silence denotes that the questioner is himself the Self that is 
to be found. In a svayamvara  the maiden goes on saying ‘no’ to 
each one until she faces her choice and then she looks downwards 
and remains silent.
Talk 621. 
Mr. Raj Krishna found Sri Bhagavan alone on the Hill at about 5-30 
p.m. and prayed: I have been desiring since my tenth year to have a 
glimpse of the Reality. I firmly believe that I can be helped in this only 
by a sage like Sri Bhagavan. So I pray for Thy help.
Sri Bhagavan looked at him for a few minutes. The devotee interrupted, 
saying: "Even if I cannot realise in my life let me at least not forget 
it on my death bed: let me have a glimpse at least at the moment of 
death so that it may stand me in good stead in the future."
A: It is said in the Bhagavad Gita, Ch. VIII, that whatever may be 
the last thought at death, it determines the later birth of the person. 
It is necessary to experience the Reality now in life in order that it 
may be experienced at death. See if this moment be different from 
the last one, and try to be in that desired state.
Q: I have limitations. I am unable to rise to the occasion. Grace can 
achieve for me what I cannot achieve myself.
A: True, but unless there is grace this desire will not arise.
They were walking slowly, conversing at the same time. The 
devotee said: "There is a girl of eleven in Lahore. She is very 
remarkable. She says she can call upon Krishna twice and remain 
conscious, but if she calls the third time she becomes unconscious 
and remains in trance for ten hours continuously."
A: So long as you think that Krishna is different from you, you call upon 
Him. Falling into trance denotes the transitoriness of the samadhi . 
You are always in samadhi ; that is what should be realised.
Q: God-vision is glorious.
A: God-vision is only vision of the Self objectified as the God of 
one’s own faith. Know the Self.606Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 622. 
Sri Bhagavan has a bandage on his finger. Someone asked, "What is 
that?" Bhagavan replied: "The finger came upon a knife". (The Knife 
is inert, and relative to it the finger is a conscious agent).
Talk 623. 
Sri Bhagavan said to another devotee that there are five states:
(1) Sleep, (2) Before waking, a state free from thoughts, (3) Sense of 
happiness of that freedom from thoughts ( rasasvada ), (4) The internal 
movement of the vasanas  (kashaya ) and (5) Complete waking with 
(distraction) vikshepa . The second of those should be made permanent.
4th February, 1939
Talk 624. 
A devotee asked Sri Bhagavan: With every thought the subject and the 
object appear and disappear. Does not the ‘I’ disappear when the subject 
disappears thus? If that be so how can the quest of the ‘I’ proceed?
A: The subject (knower) is only a mode of mind. Though the mode 
(vritti ) passes, the reality behind it does not cease. The background 
of the mode is the ‘I’ in which the mind modes arise and sink.
Q: After describing the Self as srota  (hearer), manta  (thinker), vijnata  
(knower), etc., it is again described as asrota, amanta, avijnata,  
non-hearer, non-thinker, non-knower, Is it so?
A: Just so. The common man is aware of himself only when 
modifications arise in the intellect ( vijnanamaya kosa ); these 
modifications are transient; they arise and set. Hence the vijnanamaya  
(intellect) is called a kosa or sheath. When pure awareness is left 
over it is itself the Chit (Self) or the Supreme. To be in one’s natural 
state on the subsidence of thoughts is bliss; if that bliss be transient 
- arising and setting - then it is only the sheath  of bliss ( Anandamaya 
kosa), not the pure Self. What is needed is to fix the attention on 
the pure ‘I’ after the subsidence of all thoughts and not to lose hold 
of it. This has to be described as an extremely subtle thought; else 
it cannot be spoken of at all, since it is no other than the Real Self. 
Who is to speak of it, to whom and how?607Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
This is well explained in the Kaivalyam  and the Viveka Chudamani . 
Thus though in sleep the awareness of the Self is not lost, the ignorance 
of the jiva is not affected by it. For this ignorance to be destroyed this 
subtle state of mind ( vrittijnanam ) is necessary; in the sunshine cotton 
does not burn; but if the cotton be placed under a lens it catches fire 
and is consumed by the rays of the Sun passing through the lens. So 
too, though the awareness of the Self is present at all times, it is not 
inimical to ignorance. If by meditation the subtle state of thought is 
won, then ignorance is destroyed. Also in Viveka Chudamani: ativa 
sukshmam paramatma tattvam na sthoola drishtya  (the exceedingly 
subtle Supreme Self cannot be seen by the gross eye) and esha svayam 
jyotirasesha sakshi  (this is Self-shining and witnesses all).
This subtle mental state is not a modification of mind called vritti . 
Because the mental states are of two kinds. One is the natural state  
and the other is a transformation into forms of objects. The first 
is the truth, and the other is according to the doer ( kartru-tantra ). 
When the latter perishes, jale kataka renuvat  (like the clearing nut 
paste in water) the former will remain over.
The means for this end is meditation. Though this is with the triad 
of distinction ( triputi ) it will finally end in pure awareness ( jnanam ) 
Meditation needs effort: jnanam  is effortless. Meditation can be 
done, or not done, or wrongly done, jnanam  is not so. Meditation is 
described as kartru-tantra  (as doer’s own), jnanam  as vastu-tantra  
(the Supreme’s own).
7th February, 1939
Talk 625. 
Miss Merston, an English lady visitor:  I have read Who am I ? While 
inquiring who the ‘I’ is, I cannot hold it for any length of time. 
Secondly, I have no interest in the environment, but yet I have hopes 
that I shall find some interest in life.
A: If there are no interests it is good. (The interpreter points out that 
the questioner hopes to find some interest in life).
A: That means there are those vasanas . A dreamer dreams a dream. 
He sees the dream world with pleasures, pains. etc. But he wakes 
up and then loses all interest in the dream world. So it is with the  608Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
waking world also. Just as the dream-world, being only a part 
of yourself and not different from you, ceases to interest you, so 
also the present world would cease to interest you if you awake 
from this waking dream ( samsara ) and realise that it is a part of 
your Self, and not an objective reality. 
Because you think that you are apart from the objects around you, 
you desire a thing. But if you understand that the thing was only 
a thought-form you would no longer desire it.
All things are like bubbles on water. You are the water and the 
objects are the bubbles. They cannot exist apart from the water, 
but they are not quite the same as the water.
Q: I feel I am like froth.
A: Cease that identification with the unreal and know your real 
identity. Then you will be firm and no doubts can arise.
Q: But I am the froth.
A: Because you think that way there is worry. It is a wrong 
imagination. Accept your true identity with the Real. Be the water 
and not the froth. That is done by diving in.
Q: If I dive in, I shall find........
A: But even without diving in, you are That . The ideas of exterior and 
interior exist only so long as you do not accept your real identity.
Q: But I took the idea from you that you want me to dive in.
A: Yes, quite right. It was said because you are identifying yourself 
with the froth and not the water. Because of this confusion the 
answer was meant to draw your attention to this confusion and 
bring it home to you. All that is meant is that the Self is infinite 
inclusive of all that you see. There is nothing beyond It nor apart 
from It. Knowing this, you will not desire anything; not desiring, 
you will be content.
The Self is always realised. There is no seeking to realise what is 
already - always - realised. For you cannot deny your own existence. 
That existence is consciousness - the Self.
Unless you exist you cannot ask questions. So you must admit your 
own existence. That existence is the Self. It is already realised.  609Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Therefore the effort to realise results only in your realising your 
present mistake - that you have not realised your Self. There is no 
fresh realisation. The Self becomes revealed.
Q: That will take some years.
A: Why years? The idea of time is only in your mind. It is not in the 
Self. There is no time for the Self. Time arises as an idea after the 
ego arises. But you are the Self beyond time and space; you exist 
even in the absence of time and space.
9th February, 1939
Talk 626. 
Another devotee:  Is it not that the ‘I’ exists only in relation to a ‘this’ 
(aham - idam )?
A: ‘I’, ‘this’ appear together now. But ‘this’ is contained ( vyaptam ) 
in the ‘I’ - they are not apart. ‘This’ has to merge into and become 
one with ‘I’. The ‘I’ that remains over is the true ‘I’.
Talk 627. 
Q: What is staying with the Guru?
A: It means studying the sacred lore.
Q: But there is the special virtue of the Guru’s presence.
A: Yes. That purifies the mind.
Q: That is the effect or reward. I asked about how the disciple ought 
to behave.
A: That differs according to the type of disciple - student, householder, 
what are his own ingrained mental tendencies and so on.
Q: If so, will it naturally come out right?
A: Yes. In former times the Rishis sent their sons to others for 
education.
Q: Why?
A: Because affection stood in the way.
Q: That cannot be for the jnanis . Was it in respect of the disciples?
A: Yes.610Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Q: If so would not this obstacle get removed along with all the others, 
through the Master’s grace?
A: There will be delay. Owing to the disciple’s want of reverence, 
grace may become effective only after a long time.
It is said that awaking from ignorance is like awaking from a fearful 
dream of a beast. It is thus. There are two taints of mind, namely veiling 
and restlessness ( avarana  and vikshepa ). Of the two, the former is evil, 
the latter is not so. So long as the veiling effect of sleep persists there 
is the frightful dream; on awaking the veiling ceases; and there is no 
more fear. Restlessness is not a bar to happiness. To get rid of the 
restlessness caused by the world, one seeks the restlessness (activity) 
of being with the Guru, studying the sacred books and worshipping 
God with forms, and by these awakening is attained.
What happens in the end? Karna was ever the son of Kunti. The 
tenth man was such all along. Rama was Vishnu all the time. Such 
is jnanam . It is being aware of That which always is.
13th February, 1939
Talk 628. 
After his return from Europe, Mr. D. had a private interview with 
Sri Bhagavan for a few minutes. He said that his former visit had 
had some effect but not as much as he wanted. He could concentrate 
on his work. Is not concentration indispensable for spiritual 
progress? Karma appealed to him because that helped towards 
concentration.
Sri Bhagavan:  There is no karma without a karta  (doer). On seeking 
for the doer he disappears. Where is  Karma  then?
Mr. D. sought practical instruction.
A: Seek the karta.  That is the practice.
Mrs. D. said there were breaks in her awareness and desired to know 
how the awareness might be made continuous.
A: Breaks are due to thoughts. You cannot be aware of breaks unless 
you think so. It is only a thought. Repeat the old practice, "To whom 
do thoughts arise?" Keep up the practice until there are no breaks. 
Practice alone will bring about continuity of awareness.611Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
17th February, 1939
Talk 629. 
This is Sivaratri day. Sri Bhagavan was beaming with Grace in the 
evening. A Sadhaka  raised the following question:
Q: Enquiry into the Self seems to take one into the subtle body 
(ativahika sariram  or puriashtakam  or jivatma ). Am I right?
A: They are different names for the same state, but they are 
used according to the different points of view. After some time 
puriashtakam  (the eight fold subtle body) will disappear and there 
will be the ‘ Eka’ (one) only.
Vritti jnana  alone can destroy ‘ ajnana ’ (ignorance). Absolute jnana  
is not inimical to ajnana.
There are two kinds of vrittis  (modes of mind). (1) vishaya vritti  
(objective) and (2) atma vritti  (subjective). The first must give 
place to the second. 
That is the aim of abhyasa  (practice), which takes one first to the 
puriashtaka  and then to the One Self.
Talk 630. 
In the course of conversation a devotee said in passing: Sivaprakasam 
Pillai, who is such a good man, such an ardent devotee and a 
longstanding disciple, has written a poem saying that Sri Bhagavan’s 
instructions could not be carried out by him effectively in practice. 
What can be the lot of others then?
A: Sri Acharya also says similar things when he composes songs in 
praise of any deity. How else can they praise God?
Saying this Sri Bhagavan smiled.
Talk 631. 
The Sadhaka  repeated his question in a different way:
Q: The enquiry into the Self seems to lead to the ativahika , the 
puriashtaka  or the jivatma . Is it right?
A: Yes. It is called ‘ sarira ’ (body or abode, city or individual, puri 
or jiva according to the outlook). They are the same.612Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Vritti-jnanam  is usually associated with objective phenomena.  
When these cease there remains the atma-vritti  or the subjective 
vritti  that is the same as jnanam.  Without it ajnanam  will not cease. 
The puriashtaka  also will not be found associated with anything 
outside, and the Self will shine forth uniform and harmonious.
18th February, 1939
Talk 632. 
Mr. Satyanarayana Rao, a teacher in Vellore Mahant School, is a well-
known devotee of Sri Maharshi. He has been ailing from a cancer of 
the gullet and the doctors have no hopes for him. He has been given 
a room in the Asramam and the Sarvadhikari is very kind to him. It 
is now about two months and the patient is very weak.
At about 9 a.m., Sri Bhagavan was reading the tapals . The brother 
of the patient appeared in the hall with an anxious look to ask Sri 
Bhagavan about the patient, who was gasping. The Sarvadhikari also 
came to the hall on behalf of the sufferer. Sri Bhagavan continued to 
read the tapals.  In a few minutes another devotee also came there for 
the same purpose. Sri Bhagavan asked: Did you call the doctor?
Q: Yes, but he is too busy in the hospital.
A: What can I do? (After a short time) They will be pleased if I go 
there.
Soon Bhagavan left the hall and went to the patient’s side, massaged 
him gently and placed His hand on the heart and the other on his 
head. The patient, whose tongue was protruding, mouth open and 
eyes fixed, showed signs of relief and in about twenty minutes 
gently murmured, "Oh Help of the helpless, how I have troubled 
Thee! What return can I make for this kindness?" The people felt 
relieved. Sri Bhagavan returned to the hall. Someone offered soap 
and water to Sri Bhagavan to wash his hands. But he declined them 
and rubbed His hands over His body. However the patient passed 
away a few days later.
A well-known devotee remarked:  "Sri Bhagavan appears so 
unconcerned under all circumstances. But He is all along so loving 
and gracious."613Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
23rd February, 1939
Talk 633. 
A visitor from Dindigul said: I suffer in both mind and body. From the 
day of my birth I have never had happiness. My mother too suffered 
from the time she conceived me, I hear. Why do I suffer thus? I have 
not sinned in this life. Is all this due to the sins of past lives?
A: If there should be unrelieved suffering all the time, who would 
seek happiness? That is, if suffering be the natural state, how can 
the desire to be happy arise at all? However the desire does arise. 
So to be happy is natural; all else is unnatural. Suffering is not 
desired, only because it comes and goes.
The questioner repeated his complaint.
A: You say the mind and body suffer. But do they ask the questions? 
Who is the questioner? Is it not the one that is beyond both mind 
and body?
You say the body suffers in this life; the cause of this is the previous 
life: its cause is the one before it, and so on. So, like the case of 
the seed and the sprout , there is no end to the causal series. It has 
to be said that all the lives have their first cause in ignorance. That 
same ignorance is present even now, framing this question. That 
ignorance must be removed by jnanam .
"Why and to whom did this suffering come?" If you question 
thus you will find that the ‘I’ is separate from the mind and body, 
that the Self is the only eternal being, and that It is eternal bliss. 
That is jnanam .
Q: But why should there be suffering now?
A: If there were no suffering how could the desire to be happy 
arise? If that desire did not arise how would the Quest of the Self 
be successful?
Q: Then is all suffering good?
A: Quite so. What is happiness? Is it a healthy and handsome body, 
timely meals, and the like? Even an emperor has troubles without 
end though he may be healthy. So all suffering is due to the false 
notion "I am the body". Getting rid of it is jnanam .614Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 634. 
An Andhra gentleman, retired from Government Service, asked: "I have 
been doing omkara upasana  for long. In the left ear I am always hearing 
a sound. It is like the piping of a nadasvaram  (pipe). Even now I hear it. 
Some luminous visions are also seen. I do not know what I should do."
A: There must be one to hear sounds or see visions. That one is the 
‘I’. If you seek it, asking "Who am I?" the subject and objects would 
coalesce. After that there is no quest. Till then thought will arise, things 
will appear and disappear; you ask yourself what has happened, and 
what will happen. If the subject be known then the objects will merge 
in the subject. If without that knowledge, one applies the mind to 
objects, because these objects appear and disappear, and one does not 
know that one’s true nature is that which remains over as the Self. On 
the vanishing of objects, fear arises. That is, the mind being bound 
to objects there is suffering when the objects are absent. But they are 
transient and the Self is eternal. If the eternal Self be known subject 
and object merge into one, and the One without a second will shine.
Q: Is there the merger of the Omkara ?
A: Om is the eternal truth. That which remains over after the 
disappearance of objects is Om. It does not merge in anything. It 
is the State of which it is said: "Where one sees none other, hears 
none other, knows none other, that is Perfection." Yatra nanyat 
pasyati, nanyat srunoti, nanyat vijanati sa bhuma ? All the upasanas  
are ways to winning it. One must not get stuck in the upasanas , 
but must query "Who am I?" and find the Self.
Q: I have no pleasure in the house. There remains nothing for me to 
do in the family. I have finished doing what I had to do. Now there 
are grandsons and granddaughters. May I remain in the house, or 
should I leave it and go away?
A: You should stay just where you are now. But where are you now? 
Are you in the house, or is the house in you? Is there any house 
apart from you? If you get fixed in your own place, you will see all 
things have merged into you, and there will be no cause for such 
questions as these.
Q: Yes. Then it seems as if I may remain at home.
A: You must remain in your real state.615Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 635. 
An Andhra gentleman of Hospet has returned from pilgrimage to 
Kailas, Amarnath, etc. He described how fine those places are and how 
difficult the journey was. He finally asked for something to remind 
him of Maharshi, meaning some instruction.
A: You have been to Kailas etc. Have you been to Muktinath?
Q: No. It was too difficult a journey for me. I have however been in 
Nepal. Have you been to those places?
A: No, no. I mentioned Muktinath casually.
Then Sri Bhagavan remarked:  "To go to Kailas and return is just a 
new birth. For there the body-idea drops off."
Talk 636. 
Mrs. Kelly Hack asked if the waking and the dream states might be 
imagined to be excursions from the natural state of the Self.
A: There must be a place for excursions. The place must also lie 
outside oneself. It is not possible in the true nature of the Self.
Q: But I meant that it might be imagined to be so.
A: One might as well imagine the true nature of the Self
Q: The illustration of the screen is very beautiful.
A: The cinema screen is not sentient and so requires a seer, whereas 
the screen of the Self includes the seer and the seen - rather, it is 
full of light.
The pictures of the cinema-show cannot be seen without the help of 
darkness, for you cannot have a show in broad daylight. Similarly, 
the mind thinks thoughts and sees objects owing to an underlying 
ignorance ( avidya ). The Self is pure knowledge, pure light where 
there is no duality. Duality implies ignorance. The Knowledge of the 
Self is beyond relative knowledge and ignorance, the Light of the Self 
is beyond the ordinary light and darkness. The Self is all alone.
Talk 637. 
There was some question about progress.
Sri Bhagavan said that progress is for the mind and not for the Self. 
The Self is ever perfect.616Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
2nd March, 1939
Talk 638. 
For the last few days a rule is in force by which the visitors are not 
allowed to enter the hall between 12 noon and 2-30 p.m. A few Muslim 
visitors came to the Asramam in the interval today. The attendant 
promptly told them that they should not disturb Sri Bhagavan’s rest at 
this hour. Sri Bhagavan quietly got down from the sofa and came out 
of the hall; He sat on the stone pavement adjoining the wall and asked 
the visitors also to sit close to Him. He went on reading a newspaper 
and also laid Himself on the stone. He was finally requested to go in.
Talk 639. 
While speaking to Mr. K. L. Sarma of Pudukotah, Sri Bhagavan said: 
Leaving out what is intimate and immediate, why should one seek the 
rest? The scriptures say "That Thou art". In this statement ‘Thou’ is 
directly experienced; but leaving it out they go on seeking ‘That’!
Q: In order to find the oneness of ‘That’ and of ‘Thou’.
A: ‘Thou’ is the Inner Self immanent in all; in order to find the same, he 
leaves himself out and sees the world objectively. What is the world? 
What is Immanent in it? It is ‘That’. All such ideas arise only on forgetting 
one’s own Self. I never bothered myself with such matters. Only after a 
time it occurred to me that men had investigated such matters.
3rd March, 1939
Talk 640. 
At about 4 p.m. Sri Bhagavan, who was writing something intently, 
turned His eyes slowly towards the window to the north; He closed 
the fountain pen with the cap and put it in its case: He closed the 
notebook and put it aside; He removed the spectacles, folded them 
in the case and left them aside. He leaned back a little, looked up 
overhead, turned His face this way and that; and looked here and 
there. He passed His hand over His face and looked contemplative. 
Then He turned to someone in the hall and said softly:
A: The pair of sparrows just came here and complained to me that 
their nest had been removed. I looked up and found their nest 617Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
missing." Then He called for the attendant, Madhava Swami, and 
asked: "Madhava, did anyone remove the sparrows’ nest?
The attendant, who walked in leisurely, answered with an air of 
unconcern: "I removed the nests as often as they were built. I 
removed the last one this very afternoon."
A: That’s it. That is why the sparrows complained. The poor little 
ones! How they take the pieces of straw and shreds in their tiny 
beaks and struggle to build their nests!
Attendant:  But, why should they build here, over our heads?
A: Well - well. Let us see who succeeds in the end (After a short 
time Sri Bhagavan went out).
Talk 641. 
Explaining the opening stanza of the Sad Vidya , Sri Bhagavan 
observed: The world is always apparent to everyone. All must know 
"I and this world exist". On enquiry "do these always exist?" and 
"if indeed real, they must remain even unrelated to time, space and 
differentiation; are they so?" It is evident that only in the waking and 
dream states these are perceived but not in deep sleep. Therefore ‘I’ 
and the world appear sometimes and disappear also. They are created, 
have their being and later vanish. Whence do they arise? Wherein do 
they remain? Where do they go on vanishing from view? Can such 
phenomena be admitted to be real?
Furthermore, I and the world, objects of creation, sustenance and 
destruction, are perceived in the waking and dream states only and not 
in deep sleep. How does deep sleep differ from the other two states? 
In sleep there are no thoughts whereas in the other two states there 
are. There the thoughts must be the origin of the ‘I’ and the world.
Now what about thoughts? They cannot be natural; otherwise they 
cannot appear at one moment and disappear at another. Wherefrom 
do they arise? Their source, ever-present and not subject to variations, 
must be admitted to be. It must be the eternal state as said in the 
upadesa mantra  - That from which all beings come forth, that in 
which they remain and that into which they resolve.
This stanza is not in praise or adoration but only an expression of 
the Reality.618Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 642. 
Mr. K. L. Sarma asked:  
Svasvarupanusandhanam bhaktirityabhidhiyate . 
Again - Svatmatattvanusadhanam bhaktirityapare joguh . 
What is the difference between the two?
A: The former is vichara  - Who am I? ( Koham? ) It represents jnana.
The latter is dhyana  - Whence am I? ( Kutoham? ) This admits a 
jivatma  which seeks the Paramatma .
Talk 643. 
An elderly, learned Andhra asked:  "Are the two methods Karma marga  
and jnana marga  separate and independent of each other? Or is the 
Karma marga  only a preliminary which after successful practice 
should be followed by jnana marga  for the consummation of the aim? 
The Karma advocates non-attachment to action and yet an active life, 
whereas the jnana  means renunciation. What is the true meaning of 
renunciation? Subjugation of lust, passion, greed, etc., is common 
to all and forms the essential preliminary step for any course. Does 
not freedom from passions indicate renunciation? Or is renunciation 
different, meaning cessation of the active life? These questions are 
troubling me and I beg lights to be thrown on those doubts."
Bhagavan smiled and said:  "You have said all. Your question contains 
the answer also. Freedom from passions is the essential requisite. 
When that is accomplished all else is accomplished."
Q: Sri Sankara emphasises the jnana marga  and renunciation as 
preliminary to it. But there are clearly two methods dwividha  
mentioned in the Gita. They are Karma and Jnana  (Lokesmin 
dwividha nishtha ...).
A: Sri Acharya has commented on the Gita and on that passage also.
Q: The Gita seems to emphasise Karma. For Arjuna is persuaded 
to fight; Sri Krishna Himself set the example by an active life of 
great exploits.
A: The Gita starts saying that you are not the body, that you are not 
therefore the karta .
Q: What is the significance?619Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: That one should act without thinking that oneself is the actor. 
The actions go on despite his egolessness. The person has come 
into manifestation for a certain purpose. That purpose will be 
accomplished whether he considers himself the actor or not.
Q: What is Karma yoga? Is it non-attachment to Karma or its fruit?
A: Karma yoga is that yoga in which the person does not arrogate 
to himself the function of being the actor. The actions go on 
automatically.
Q: Is it the non-attachment to the fruits of actions?
A: The question arises only if there is the actor. It is being all along 
said that you should not consider yourself the actor.
Q: So Karma yoga is kartrtva buddhi rahita karma  - action without 
the sense of doership.
A: Yes. Quite so.
Q: The Gita teaches active life from beginning to end.
A: Yes, the actor-less action.
Q: Is it then necessary to leave the home and lead a life of renunciation?
A: Is the home in you? Or are you in the home?
Q: It is in my mind.
A: Then what becomes of you when you leave the physical 
environment?
Q: Now I see. Renunciation is only action without the sense of being 
the karta.
Is there not action for a jivanmukta ?
A: Who raises the question? Is he a jivanmukta  or another?
Q: Not a jivanmukta .
A: Let the question be raised after jivanmukti  is gained if it is 
found necessary. Mukti  is admitted to be freedom from the mental 
activities also. Can a mukta  think of action?
Q: Even if he gives up the action, the action will not leave him. Is 
it not so?
A: With what is he identified in order that this question might apply?
Q: Yes, I see all right. My doubts are now cleared.620Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Talk 644. 
A District Official, a Muslim:  What is the necessity for reincarnation?
A: Let us first see if there is incarnation before we speak of 
reincarnation.
Q: How?
A: Are you now incarnated that you speak of reincarnation?
Q: Yes. Certainly. An amoeba developed into higher organisms until 
the human being has been evolved. This is now the perfection in 
development. Why should there be further reincarnation?
A: Who is to set limits to this theory of evolution?
Q: Physically it is perfect. But for the soul, further development may 
be required which will happen after the death of the man.
A: Who is the man? Is he the body or the soul?
Q: Both put together.
A: Do you not exist in the absence of the body?
Q: How do you mean? It is impossible. 
A: What was your state in deep sleep?
Q: Sleep is temporary death. I was unconscious and therefore I cannot 
say what the state was.
A: But you existed in sleep. Did you not?
Q: In sleep the soul leaves the body and goes out somewhere. Then it 
returns to the body before waking. It is therefore temporary death.
A: A man who is dead never returns to say that he died, whereas the 
man who had slept says that he slept.
Q: Because this is temporary death.
A: If death is temporary and life is temporary, what is it that is real?
Q: What is meant by the question?
A: If life and death be temporary, there must be something which is 
not temporary. Reality is that which is not temporary.
Q: There is nothing real. Everything is temporary. Everything is maya .
A: On what does maya  appear?
Q: Now I see you; it is all maya .
A: If everything is maya , how does any question arise?
Q: Why should there be reincarnation?621Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: For whom?
Q: For the perfect human being.
A: If you are perfect, why do you fear to be reborn? It indicates 
imperfection.
Q: Not that I fear. But you say that I must be reborn.
A: Who says it? You are asking the question.
Q: What I mean is this. You are a Perfect Being; I am a sinner. You tell 
me that I being a sinner must be reborn in order to perfect myself?
A: No, I do not say so. On the other hand I say that you have no birth 
and therefore no death.
Q: Do you mean to say that I was not born?
A: Yes, you are now thinking that you are the body and therefore 
confuse yourself with its birth and death. But you are not the body 
and you have no birth and death.
Q: Do you not uphold the theory of rebirth?
A: No. On the other hand, I want to remove your confusion that you 
will be reborn. It is you who think that you will be reborn.
See for whom this question arises. Unless the questioner is found, 
the questions can never be set at rest.
Q: This is no answer to my question.
A: On the other hand, this is the answer to elucidate the point and 
all other doubts as well.
Q: This will not satisfy all others.
A: Leave others alone. If you take care of yourself others can take 
care of themselves.
Silence followed. He left in a few minutes apparently dissatisfied 
with the discourse.
Sri Bhagavan said after a few minutes: This will work in him. The 
discourse will have its effect.
He does not admit any Reality. Well - who is it that has determined 
everything to be unreal? Otherwise the determination also 
becomes unreal.
The theory of evolution is enlarged upon by the person in this state. 
Where is it, if not in his mind?622Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
To say that the soul must be perfected after death, the soul must be 
admitted to exist. Therefore the body is not the person. It is the soul.
To explain evolution Sri Bhagavan continued:
One sees an edifice in his dream. It rises up all of a sudden. Then 
he begins to think how it should have been already built brick by 
brick by so many labourers during such a long time. Yet he does 
not see the builders working. So also with the theory of evolution. 
Because he finds himself a man he thinks that he has developed to 
that stage from the primal state of the amoeba.
Another devotee:  It is an illustration of the saying that he sees the 
universe full of cause and effect Visram pasyati karyakaranataya .
A: Yes. The man always traces an effect to a cause, there must be a 
cause for the cause, the argument becomes interminable. Relating 
the effect to a cause makes the man think. He is finally driven to 
consider who he is himself. When he knows the Self there is Perfect 
Peace. It is for that consummation that man is evolved.
Later in the evening, another devotee said to Sri Bhagavan that the 
Muslim official continued to speak of the same topic to the Municipal 
Commissioner. 
Then Sri Bhagavan said: He says that body and soul together form 
the man. But I ask what is the state of the man in deep sleep. The 
body is not aware whereas the man is there all along.
Q: But he says that sleep is temporary death.
A: Yes, so he says. But he qualifies the word death by the word 
temporary, so that the man returns to the body. How does he find the 
body to re-enter it? Moreover, he is sure to return. That means that he 
must exist to return to the body or to claim the body for himself.
The scriptures however say that the prana protects the body in 
sleep. For when the body lies on the floor, a wolf or a tiger may 
feed on it. The animal sniffs and feels that there is life within and 
therefore does not feed on it as on a corpse. That again shows that 
there is someone in the body to protect it in deep sleep.
General remarks by Sri Bhagavan:
All knowledge is meant only to lead the person to the realisation 
of the Self. The scriptures or religions are well-known to be for 623Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
that purpose. What do they all mean? Leave alone what they say of 
the past or of the future; for it is only speculative. But the present 
existence is within the experience of all. Realise the pure Being. 
There is an end to all discourses and disputes.
But the intellect of man does not easily take to this course. It is only 
rarely that a man becomes introverted. The intellect delights in 
investigating the past and the future but does not look to the present.
Q: Because it must lose itself if it sank within in search of the Self. 
But the other investigation gives it not only a lease of life but also 
food for growth.
A: Yes. Quite so. Why is intellect developed? It has a purpose. The 
purpose is that it should show the way to realise the Self. It must 
be put to that use.
12th March, 1939
Talk 645. 
A man of about 30, of good appearance came to the hall with a few 
companions. The man abruptly began: "To say ‘I-I’ cannot help anyone 
to reach the goal. How can ‘I’ be pointed out?"
A: It must be found within. It is not an object so that it may be shown 
by one to another.
Q: When the instruction to find the ‘I’ is given, the instruction must 
be made complete by showing what it is.
A: The instruction here amounts to direction only. It depends on the 
seeker to use the direction.
Q: The seeker is ignorant and seeks instruction.
A: He is therefore guided to find the Truth.
Q: But it is not enough. The ‘I’ must be pointed out specifically.
The man assumed an aggressive attitude and did not listen. Sri Bhagavan 
tried to explain, but he would not allow Sri Bhagavan to do so. 
Finally Sri Bhagavan said: This is not the attitude of the seeker. 
When someone teaches humility to the seeker, he will reach the 
way and not till then.
The chanting of the Vedas began.624Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
The conversation was casually referred to by a devotee present.
Sri Bhagavan again said:  The seeker must listen and try to understand. 
If on the other hand he wants to prove me, let him do so by all 
means. I do not argue.
The man again began:  "My attitude was not properly understood. I 
want to know the ‘I’. It must be pointed out to me."
But he displayed considerable malice. The others did not like it and so 
tried to bring him round. He became worse. Sri Bhagavan finally said: "Go 
back the way you came. Do it externally or internally, as it suits you."
The man grew excited and others also were equally excited. He was 
finally led out of the hall and sent away.
Later it was learnt that the man was an adherent of yoga and that he used 
to abuse all other methods. He used to vilify jnana  and the jnanis .
At night, after supper, Sri Bhagavan spoke of one Govinda Yogi, a 
Malayali Brahmin pandit of some repute, who used to extol yoga and 
vilify the other methods. He always cited the Gita, the Upanishads, 
etc., to support his statements. Others, e.g., Sri Narayana Guru, used 
to refute him on the same grounds.
Later Sri Bhagavan spoke appreciating the amiability of Amritanatha. He 
is a great tapasvi , who had made considerable japa. He had fed the poor 
on many occasions in many places. He could easily gain the goodwill of 
others including great men like Sir P . Ramanathan and Pandit Malaviya.
13th March, 1939
Talk 646. 
Sri Bhagavan referred to the following passage of Gandhiji in the 
Harijan of the 11th instant:
"How mysterious are the ways of God! This journey to Rajkot is 
a wonder even to me. Why am I going, whither am I going? What 
for? I have thought nothing about these things. And if God guides 
me, what should I think, why should I think? Even thought may 
be an obstacle in the way of His guidance.
"The fact is, it takes no effort to stop thinking. The thoughts do not 
come. Indeed there is no vacuum - but I mean to say that there is 
no thought about the mission."625Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
Sri Bhagavan remarked how true the words were and emphasised each 
statement in the extract. Then He cited Thayumanavar in support of 
the state which is free from thoughts:
"Although I had often heard that all the Srutis  declare the state of 
stillness to be one of Bliss, all Bliss - yet I continued to be ignorant. 
Again I did not follow the advice of my Lord - the Silent Master 
- because of my folly. I wandered in the forest of illusion: alas! it 
was my fate."
"Bliss will reveal itself if one is still. Why then is this illusory yoga 
practice? Can it ( i.e., Bliss) be revealed by directing the intellect in 
a particular way? Do not say so, you who are given to the practice 
and are therefore an innocent babe."
"The eternal Being is that state where you have disappeared. Are 
you not in it too? You, who cannot speak of it, do not be perplexed. 
Although you do not manifest, yet you are not lost. For you are eternal 
and also still. Do not be in pain. Here is Bliss - come on!"
15th March, 1939
Talk 647. 
Q: Is not what Gandhiji describes, the state in which thoughts 
themselves become foreign?
A: Yes, It is only after the rise of the ‘I’ thought that all other thoughts 
arise. The world is seen after you have felt "I am". The ‘I-thought’ 
and all other thoughts had vanished for him.
Q: Then the body-sense must be absent in that state.
A: The body-sense also is a thought whereas he describes the state 
in which "thoughts do not come".
Q: He also says, "It takes no effort to stop thinking".
A: Of course no effort is necessary to stop thoughts whereas one is 
necessary for bringing about thoughts.
Q: We are trying to stop thoughts. Gandhiji also says that thought is 
an obstacle to God’s guidance. So it is the natural state. Though 
natural, yet how difficult to realise. They say that sadhanas  are 
necessary and also that they are obstacles. We get confused.626Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: Sadhanas  are needed so long as one has not realised it. They are 
for putting an end to obstacles. Finally there comes a stage when 
a person feels helpless notwithstanding the sadhanas.  He is unable 
to pursue the much-cherished sadhana  also. It is then that God’s 
Power is realised. The Self reveals itself.
Q: If the state is natural, why does it not overcome the unnatural 
phases and assert itself over the rest?
A: Is there anything besides that? Does anyone see anything besides 
the Self? One is always aware of the Self. So It is always Itself.
Q: It is said, because It shines forth, It is directly perceived. I 
understand from it that It becomes pratyaksha  (directly perceived), 
because It is pradeepta  (shining). Since it is not realised by us, I 
take it to be not shining. It is only pradeepta  (shining), and hence 
admits of obstacles and goes under them. If the atma  becomes 
prakarshena deepta , (very shining) it will shine over the rest. So 
it seems to be necessary to make it shine more.
A: How can it be so? The Atma cannot be dull at one moment and 
blazing at another. It is unchanging and uniform.
Q: But Chudala says to Sikhidhvaja that she simply helped to trim 
the wick.
A: That refers to nididhyasana.
By sravana , Knowledge dawns. That is the flame.
By manana , the Knowledge is not allowed to vanish. Just as the 
flame is protected by a wind-screen, so the other thoughts are not 
allowed to overwhelm the right knowledge.
By nididhyasana , the flame is kept up to burn bright by trimming 
the wick. Whenever other thoughts arise, the mind is turned inward 
to the light of true knowledge.
When this becomes natural, it is samadhi . The enquiry "Who 
am I?" is the sravana . The ascertainment of the true import of 
‘I’ is the manana.  The practical application on each occasion is 
nididhyasana .  Being as ‘I’ is samadhi .
Q: Although we have heard it so often and so constantly yet we are 
unable to put the teaching into practise successfully. It must be due 
to weakness of mind. Is it possible that one’s age is a bar?627Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
A: The mind is commonly said to be strong if it can think furiously. 
But here the mind is strong if it is free from thoughts. The yogis 
say that realisation can be had only before the age of thirty, but not 
the jnanis.  For jnana does not cease to exist with age.
It is true that in the Yoga Vasishta , Vasishta says to Rama in the 
Vairagya Prakarana  "You have this dispassion in your youth. It 
is admirable." But he did not say that jnana  cannot be had in old 
age. There is nothing to prevent it in old age.
The sadhak  must remain as the Self. If he cannot do so, he must 
ascertain the true meaning of the ‘I’ and constantly revert to it 
whenever other thoughts arise. That is the practice.
Some say that one must know the ‘ tat’ because the idea of the 
world constantly arises to deflect the mind. If the Reality behind 
it is first ascertained it will be found to be Brahman. The ‘ tvam ’ is 
understood later. It is the jiva. Finally there will be jivabrahmaikya  
(union of the two).
But why all this? Can the world exist apart from the Self? The ‘I’ is always 
Brahman. Its identity need not be established by logic and practice. It is 
enough that one realises the Self. It is always the Brahman.
According to the other school, nididhyasana  will be the thought 
Aham Brahmasmi  (I am Brahman). That is diversion of thought 
to Brahman. No diversion should be allowed. Know the Self and 
there is an end of it.
No long process is necessary to know the Self. Is it to be pointed 
out by another? Does not everyone know that he exists? Even in 
utter darkness when he cannot see his hand, he answers a call and 
says "I am here".
Q: But that ‘I’ is the ego or the ‘I-thought’ and it is not the Absolute 
Self that answers the call or is otherwise aware of oneself.
A: Even the ego can become aware of itself in the absence of light, 
sight, etc. Much more so should be the Pure Light of the Self.
I am saying that the Self is self-evident. One need not discuss the 
tattvas  to find the Self. Some say there are twenty-four tattvas , 
others more and so on. Should we know the tattvas , before we admit 
the existence of the Self? The sastras  dilate upon them in order to 628Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
point out that the Self is untouched by them. But for the seeker he 
can straightaway admit the Self and try to be That, without having 
recourse to the study of the tattvas.
Q: Gandhiji adhered to satya  (Truth) so long and won realisation 
of the Self.
A: What is satya  except the Self? Satya  is that which is made up of sat. 
Again sat is nothing but the Self. So Gandhiji’s satya  is only the Self.
Each one knows the Self but is yet ignorant. The person is enabled 
to realise only after hearing the mahavakya.  Hence the Upanishadic 
text is the eternal Truth to which everyone who has realised owes  
his experience. After hearing the Self to be the Brahman the person 
finds the true import of the Self and reverts to it whenever he is 
diverted from it. Here is the whole process of Realisation.
17th March, 1939
Talk 648. 
Sri Bhagavan said that Tatva Rayar was the first to pour forth 
Advaita philosophy in Tamil.
He had said that the Earth was his bed, his hands were his plates 
for taking food, the loin cloth was his clothing and thus there was 
no want for him.
In Maharaja Turavu  (the renunciation of the king) he says: He was 
seated on the bare ground, the earth was his seat, the mind was the 
chamara ; the sky was the canopy; and renunciation was his spouse:
Then Sri Bhagavan continued:  I had no cloth spread on the floor in 
earlier days. I used to sit on the floor and lie on the ground. That 
is freedom. The sofa is a bondage. It is a gaol for me. I am not 
allowed to sit where and how I please. Is it not bondage? 
One must be free to do as one pleases, and should not be served 
by others.
‘No want’ is the greatest bliss. It can be realised only by experience. 
Even an emperor is no match for a man with no want. The emperor 
has got vassals under him. But the other man is not aware of anyone 
beside the Self. Which is better?629Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
18th March, 1939
Talk 649. 
Mr. Thompson, a very quiet young gentleman who is staying in India for 
some years and studying Hindu Philosophy as an earnest student, asked:
Srimad Bhagavad Gita  says: "I am the prop for Brahman." In another 
place, it says: "I am in the heart of each one." Thus the different 
aspects of the Ultimate Principle are revealed. I take it that there are 
three aspects, namely (1) the transcendental (2) the immanent and 
(3) the cosmic. Is Realisation to be in any one of these or in all of 
them? Coming to the transcendental from the cosmic, the Vedanta 
discards the names and forms as being maya . But I cannot readily 
appreciate it because a tree means the trunk, branches, leaves, etc. 
I cannot dismiss the leaves as maya . Again the Vedanta also says 
that the whole is Brahman as illustrated by gold and ornaments of 
gold. How are we to understand the Truth?
A: The Gita says: Brahmano hi pratishtaham . If that ‘ aham ’ is 
known, the whole is known.
Q: It is the immanent aspect only.
A: You now think that you are an individual, there is the universe and 
that God is beyond the cosmos. So there is the idea of separateness. 
This idea must go. For God is not separate from you or the cosmos. 
The Gita also says:
The Self am I, O Lord of Sleep, 
In every creature’s heart enshrined. 
The rise and noon of every form, 
I am its final doom as well.    B. G., X. 20.
Thus God is not only in the heart of all, He is the prop of all, He 
is the source of all, their abiding place and their end. All proceed 
from Him, have their stay in Him, and finally resolve into Him. 
Therefore He is not separate.
Q: How are we to understand this passage in the Gita:
"This whole cosmos forms a particle of Me."
A: It does not mean that a small particle of God separates from Him 
and forms the Universe. His Sakti  is acting; as a result of one phase of 630Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
such activity the cosmos has become manifest. Similarly, the statement 
in Purusha Sukta , "All the beings form His one foot ( Padosya viswa 
bhutani ) does not mean that Brahman is in four parts.
Q: I understand it. Brahman is certainly not divisible.
A: So the fact is that Brahman is all and remains indivisible. He is 
ever realised. The man does not however know it. He must know 
it. Knowledge means the overcoming of obstacles which obstruct 
the revelation of the Eternal Truth that the Self is the same as 
Brahman. The obstacles form altogether your idea of separateness 
as an individual. Therefore the present attempt will result in the 
truth being revealed that the Self is not separate from Brahman.
22nd March, 1939
Talk 650. 
An Andhra gentleman of middle age asked Sri Bhagavan how he 
should make his japa.
A: The japa contains the word namah . It means that state in which 
the mind does not manifest apart from the Self. When the state is 
accomplished there will be an end of the japa. For the doer disappears 
and so also the action. The Eternal Being is alone left. Japa  should 
be made until that state is reached. There is no escape from the Self. 
The doer will be automatically drawn into it. When once it is done 
the man cannot do anything else but remain merged in the Self.
Q: Will bhakti  lead to mukti ?
A: Bhakti  is not different from mukti . Bhakti  is being as the Self 
(Swarupa ). One is always that. He realises it by the means he 
adopts. What is bhakti ? To think of God. That means: only one 
thought prevails to the exclusion of all other thoughts. That thought 
is of God which is the Self or it is the Self surrendered unto God. 
When He has taken you up nothing will assail you. The absence 
of thoughts is bhakti . It is also mukti .
The jnana  method is said to be vichara  (enquiry). That is nothing but 
‘supreme devotion’ ( parabhakti ). The difference is in words only.
You think that bhakti  is meditation on the Supreme Being. So long 
as there is vibhakti  (the sense of separateness), bhakti  (reunion) 631Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
is sought. The process will lead to the ultimate goal as is said in 
Srimad Bhagavad Gita:
arto jignasuh artharthi jnani cha Bharatarshabha
tesham jnani nityayukta ekabhaktir visishyate
— Ch. VII (l6, 17).
Any kind of meditation is good. But if the sense of separateness is lost and 
the object of meditation or the subject who meditates is alone left behind 
without anything else to know, it is  jnana.  Jnana  is said to be ekabhakti  
(single-minded devotion). The Jnani  is the finality because he has 
become the Self and there is nothing more to do. He is also perfect 
and so fearless, dwitiyat vai bhayam bhavati  - only the existence of 
a second gives rise to fear. This is mukti.  It is also bhakti .
23rd March, 1939
Talk 651. 
A. W. Chadwick is copying the English translation of the Tamil Kaivalya 
Navaneeta . When he came across some technical terms in it and felt 
some difficulty in understanding them, he asked Sri Bhagavan about 
them. Sri Bhagavan said: "Those portions deal with theories of creation. 
They are not material because the Srutis  do not mean to set forth such 
theories. They mention the theories casually so that the enquirer may 
please himself if he be so inclined. The truth is that the world appears 
as a passing shadow in a flood of light. Light is necessary to see that 
shadow also. The shadow does not deserve any special notice, analysis 
or discussion. The book deals with the Self and that is its purpose. The 
discussions on creation may be omitted for the present."
Later, Sri Bhagavan continued: "The Vedanta says that the cosmos 
springs into view simultaneously with the seer. There is no detailed 
process of creation. This is said to be yugapat srshti  (instantaneous 
creation). It is quite similar to the creations in dream where the 
experiencer springs up simultaneously with the objects of experience. 
When this is told, some people are not satisfied for they are so rooted 
in objective knowledge. They seek to find out how there can be sudden 
creation. They argue that an effect must be preceded by a cause. In 
short, they desire an explanation for the existence of the world which 632Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
they see around them. Then the Srutis  try to satisfy their curiosity by 
such theories of creation. This method of dealing with the subject of 
creation is called krama srshti  (gradual creation). But the true seeker 
can be content with yugapat srshti  - instantaneous creation."
24th March, 1939
Talk 652. 
A certain person had composed verses in praise of Sri Bhagavan. Therein the 
word Avartapuri  occurs. Sri Bhagavan said that it means Tiruchuzhi, the 
birth place of Sri Bhagavan. The place goes by different names. Avarta 
chuzhi  an eddy. There had been several deluges. God Siva had saved this 
place from three of them. On one occasion when the whole land surface 
was immersed in the waters, Siva planted His spear in that place. All the 
waters, which would have otherwise flooded it, were drawn into that hole. 
Then an eddy was formed. Hence the name. Again in another deluge, He 
held the place aloft on the top of the spear. Hence, Soolapuri .
Mother Earth was carried away by Hiranyaksha into the waters. 
When recovered by Vishnu she felt that she had papasparsa  by that 
Rakshasa. As an expiation of that impure touch she worshipped Siva 
in that place. Hence, Bhuminathesvara Kshetra .
Gautama is prominent in Arunachala as well as in Tiruchuzhi. Shiva 
showed Himself to the saint in the dancing posture and also re-enacted 
the wedding of Gauri Sankar.
Kaundinya was another rishi for whose sake the sacred river began to 
flow there. It goes by the name of the rishi i.e ., Kaundinya river which 
in Tamil was corrupted into Kundaru. It is otherwise called Papahari i.e., 
the destroyer of sins. There lies a story behind it: A King’s daughter was 
hysterical ( i.e., possessed). She was taken on a pilgrimage to various 
sacred places and tirthas . On one occasion the party heard the name of 
Papahari as a tirtha  in a sankalpa  before bathing. They enquired where 
the tirtha  was and went to Tiruchuzhi. The girl was bathed in that water 
and thus made free from the spirit.
The Pandya king also got free from brahmahatya  in this place. It 
happens to be the centre of the Pandya Kingdom, which comprised 
the Madura, Ramnad and Tirunelveli Districts.633Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
The village had a sacred tank in front of the temple, which was the 
spot of the eddy created by the spear of Siva. Even now the waters in 
the tank rise at the rate of about a foot every day for ten consecutive 
days preceding the full moon in the Tamil month Masi ( Maghasuddha 
Pournami ) and then gradually fall during the succeeding ten days. 
This phenomenon can be observed every year. It is noted with wonder 
by the young ones of the village. Pilgrims gather to bathe in those 
waters on that occasion. That water is sulphurous for the silver jewels 
of the bathers become dark after bathing in it. Sri Bhagavan said he 
had noted it when He was a boy.
The village has the river on one side and a huge lake on the other 
side. The bund of the lake is clayey and runs about three miles in all. 
The lake is strangely enough twenty feet over the level of the village. 
Even when it is over-full, the waters escape in other directions leaving 
the village unaffected.
1st April, 1939
Talk 653. 
Some teachers who attended the Teachers’ Guild meeting in the town 
came on a visit to the hall. One of them asked Sri Bhagavan: "I seem 
to be wandering in a forest because I do not find the way."
A: This idea of being in a forest must go. It is such ideas which are 
at the root of the trouble.
Q: But I do not find the way.
A: Where is the forest and where is the way unless they are in you? 
You are as you are and yet you speak of a forest and ways.
Q: But I am obliged to move in society.
A: Society is also an idea similar to that of the forest.
Q: I leave my home and go and mix in society.
A: Who does it?
Q: The body moves and does all.
A: Quite so. Now that you identify yourself with the body you feel 
the trouble. The trouble is in your mind. You think that you are the 
body or that you are the mind. But there are occasions when you  634Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
are free from both. For example in deep slumber, you create a body 
and a world in your dream. That represents your mental activities. 
In your waking state you think that you are the body and then the 
idea of forest and the rest arise.
Now, consider the situation. You are an unchanging and continuous 
being who remains in all these states which are constantly changing 
and therefore transient. But you are always there. It follows that these 
fleeting objects are mere phenomena which appear on your being like 
pictures which move across a screen. The screen does not move when 
the picture moves. Similarly, you do not move from where you are 
even when the body leaves the home and mixes in society.
Y our body, the society, the forest and the ways are all in you; you are 
not in them. Y ou are the body also but not this body only. If you remain 
as your pure Self, the body and its movements need not affect you.
Q: This can be realised only by the Grace of the master. I was reading 
Sri Bhagavata ; it says that Bliss can be had only by the dust of the 
Master’s feet. I pray for Grace.
A: What is Bliss but your own being? You are not apart from Being 
which is the same as Bliss. You are now thinking that you are the 
mind or the body which are both changing and transient. But you 
are unchanging and eternal. That is what you should know.
Q: It is darkness and I am ignorant.
A: This ignorance must go. Again, who says ‘I am ignorant’? He must 
be the witness of ignorance. That is what you are. Socrates said, "I 
know that I do not know." Can it be ignorance? It is wisdom.
Q: Why then do I feel unhappy when I am in Vellore and feel peace 
in Your Presence?
A: Can this feeling in this place be Bliss? When you leave the place 
you say you are unhappy. Therefore this peace is not permanent, nay 
it is mixed with unhappiness which is felt in another place. Therefore 
you cannot find Bliss in places and in periods of time. It must be 
permanent in order that it may be useful. Such permanent being is 
yourself. Be the Self and that is Bliss. You are always That.
You say that you left Vellore, travelled in the train, arrived in 
Tiruvannamalai, entered the hall and found happiness. When you 635Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi
go back you are not happy in Vellore. Now, do you really move  
from place to place? Even considering you to be the body, the 
body sits in a cart at the gate of the home, the cart moves on to the 
railway station. Then it gets into a railway carriage which speeds 
on from Vellore to Tiruvannamalai. There it gets into another cart 
which brings the body here. Yet when you are asked, you say that 
you travelled all the way from Vellore. Your body remains where 
it was and all the places went past it.
Such ideas are due to the false identity which is so deep-rooted.
Another asked: Should we understand the world as transient ( anitya )?
A: Why so? Because you are now considering it to be permanent 
(nitya ) the Scriptures tell you that it is not so in order to wean 
you from wrong ideas. This should be done by knowing yourself 
to be eternal ( nitya ) and not by branding the world as transitory 
(anitya ).
Q: We are told to practise indifference ( udasina ) which is possible 
only if the world is unreal.
A: Yes. Oudasinyam abhipsitam.  Indifference is advised. But what 
is it? It is absence of love and hatred. When you realise the Self 
on which these phenomena pass, will you love or hate them? That 
is the meaning of indifference.
Q: That will lead to want of interest in our work. Should we do our 
duty or not?
A: Yes - certainly. Even if you try not to do your duty you will be 
perforce obliged to do it. Let the body complete the task for which 
it came into being.
Sri Krishna also says in the Gita, whether Arjuna liked it or not he 
would be forced to fight. When there is work to be done by you, 
you cannot keep away; nor can you continue to do a thing when 
you are not required to do it, that is to say, when the work allotted 
to you has been done. In short, the work will go on and you must 
take your share in it - the share which is allotted to you.
Q: How is it to be done?
A: Like an actor playing his part in a drama - free from love or  hatred.
